on the local food supply chain, including primary producers, government agencie s, food safety authorities, transportation and distribution, consumers, and others. According to research done by [18] Both government and non -governmental organizations have prioritized the development of sustainable local food and agricultural business es in the Caribbean; improving knowledge mobilization in industry is regarded as a critical aspect in agricultural development and innovation. A key starting point in efforts to promote a more informed local agri -food system is by improving the quality of agricultural extension and how it is delivered. As a result of promoting the use of information and communication technologies (ICTs) in rural agriculture, there is the possibility that extension services can be delivered more efficiently and inclusively, thereby contributing to the self -sustaining development of individual agri -food industries. Traditionally the agriculture industry in Rwanda used cooperatives as a way to conduct extension and they are seen as an important institutional vehicle to improve the performance of the smallholder farm sector [19]. Using social media is a great way to reach more consumers, collaborate with colleagues in an effective and timely manner, network within and outside the organization, to share agricultural information, learn from the achievements of other colleagues, and many other things. Promoters are able to do this by using social medi a tools [20]. ICTs in agricultural financing Plans for financial sector growth in Africa to address these issues have generated disa ppointingly few results. Financial intermediaries, relatively high -interest rates, wide intermediation spreads, and significant bank profits continue to exist. Monetary and macroeconomic unpredictability, strong government demand for loan money, a lack of competition, relatively small banks, and contractual concerns, such as limited creditor rights, compromised courts, poor bankruptcy frameworks, and general disregard for contracts, are among the reasons. [21]. Many groups have pioneered novel ways to agricultural funding since the early 2000s. They sometimes employ the notion of microfinance to give agricultural financing, good banking, and mainly agricultural knowledge to enter and flourish in this industry. Many of these new strategies show considera ble potential, yet none of them are universally effective. Organizations, on the other hand, can be most effective, innovative, and pragmatic when they are not limited by dogma, use comprehensive risk management methods and technologies, and retain the abi lity to choose consumers rather than allowing governments to do so. According to a Chinese study, mobile banking breaks down barriers that have hampered rural lending in China and most of the developing world. When compared to traditional physical networks , it allows financial institutions to provide services to clients more efficiently and provides advantages for gathering, sending, and sharing information. It enables consumers to manage their financial activities despite time, location, and market constra ints. Mobile banking has become a significant tool of promoting financial inclusion because it may save time, cut transaction costs, and facilitate financing for a wide range of users. It is an especially promising technology for China's rural financial market, which is still plagued