118 Introduction and background In China, tea has been grown and consumed for more than 2,000 years. It is currently the caffeine -containing beverage that is drunk the most globally. Only water is consumed more widely worldwide [1]. Rwanda traditionally produces tea, which is a significant revenue crop. Since being introduced by missionaries in 1952, tea has developed into an industry with a specific exportation goal. The cultivation of tea began on a limited scale and is now developing in the Rwandan Northern, Western, and Southern regions. Due to its favorable temperature, tropical, volcanic soils, and evenly distributed annual rainfall ranging from 1,200 to 1,400 millimeters, Rwanda is naturall y favored for growing tea. Most tea is grown in drained marshes and hilly areas between 1,55 0 m and 2,500 m above sea level [2]. Thousands of household tea producers in rural areas continue to rely heavily on the tea subsector as their main source of inc ome, making it currently Rwanda's largest employer of both ca sual and self-employed workers [1]. The Rwandan tea industry currently consists of 16 functioning plants that are run by private corporations and 16 cooperatives that bring together a larger nu mber of smallholder tea farmers who control more than 70% of the nation's total tea zones. Over many years, made tea has contributed significantly to the nation's agricultural exports and external revenues. As one of the best teams in the world, Rwandan te a is renowned for its exceptional quality. Some of the high -quality teas produced in Rwanda include black, orthodox, white, green, organic, and spicy varieties [3]. Rwandan Development Board affirms that Rwandan tea has recently reached an all -time high in value at the monthly East African Tea Trade Association auction in Mombasa. Nearly 70% of the population of working age is still employed in agriculture, which still contributes 24% of Rwanda's national income [4]. Food crops account for almost two th irds of agricultural value. Over the past two decades, agricultural growth has been claimed to have averaged 5.4% annually, with food crop increase accounting for roughly two -thirds of this expansion. Almost 80% of Rwanda's farmers are smallholders who wor k exclusively or mostly in subsistence agriculture. MINAGRI (the Rwandan Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Resources) and its departments oversee agricultural activity. Aside from that, the NISR (National Institute of Statistics of Rwanda) commissions agr icultural surveys and gathers agricultural statistics. Rwanda's 30 districts, which coordinate agricultural activities through district agronomists, cash crop officers, and government -appointed workers in the nation's 416 sectors, are the most significant administrative units of local government [5]. The Crop Intensification Program, which ran from 2007 to 2020, has been Rwanda's primary strategy for promoting agricultural growth over the previous few years. Every human being's physical and economic survi val depends in some manner on agriculture. By 2050, the United Nations projects that there will be more than 9 billion people on the planet [6]. Food output will need to rise by 70%