employer in Rwanda, and tea is the primary subsector, so more investment is required. Another unexpected finding is that th e relationship between ICT and independent variables is more fruitful than the relationship between ICT and dependent variables. That is explained by the fact that simply having an Internet connection on a mobile phone is insufficient to innovate if there is a lack of understanding of the final end consumer and other involved stakeholders are not equally involved in deve loping market -oriented products [32]. Conclusion The economy of Rwanda and its farmers both benefit from innovation in the tea industry. T ea farming in Rwanda has a long history and is very vital to Rwanda's economy. The primary goal of this study is to highlight how crucial it is to use ICT to innovate Rwanda's tea -producing sector. This study investigates how ICT applications for market orientation, agricultural financing, and agricultural extension can lead to innovation in the tea -producing sector. Based on earlier literature searches on related problems, five study hypotheses have been created. A total of 250 residents of Rwanda's wester n provinces took part in the study and answered 22 questions. Finally, a full explanation and the material were gathered and presented. This study has several limitations because the data was gathered from the perspectives of farmers, wholesalers, distribu tors, and exporters. As inter -organizational solutions to uncertainty may be required, future research may be enhanced by involving consumers. Institutions and stakeholders must pay special attention to population growth and the dearth of resources needed to meet the population's expanding needs. According to prior talks, central government policies have a significant impact on the growth of the tea business. Innovations in the tea sector will also be ensured through the best use of political measures. Find ings from the study may have significant additional advantages for regional and national growth, particularly in regard to tea farming, ICT advancements, and agricultural advances. Additionally, the results may encourage companies to invest in tea farming while working with farmers and other involved stakeholders to achieve a common goal, thereby advancing agricultural tea farming innovation. The nature of the data and the sample size employed are two examples of the study's limitations. The model does not take into account the factors that are commonly used to predict innovations, such as regulatory, economic, and knowledge supply factors. Therefore, an empirical reexamination of Tea's innovation determinant should take these elements into account. Investme nts in the tea industry should be improved, there is a need to Strengthen the government’s macro -control in improving the tea farming industry in Rwanda Acknowledgements The authors wish to thank associate professor Liu Yan and Dr Thomas Bilabiid Udimal and Southwest Forestry university also a school of economics and management. Conflicts of Interest The authors declare no conflicts of interest regarding the publication of this paper NAAR, April 2023 , Volume 6, Issue 4, 105 -118 116 of 118 References [1]Atuahene -Gima, K. (1995). An Exploratory Analysis