better interact with public service agents thanks in part to affordable mobile applications [8], [9] . Literature review (1) Information and communication techno logy in agricultural innovation The creation of new goods or services c an be thought of as innovation [10]. The o rganizational innovation is the creation of new knowledge and/or alternative delivery techniques. Practice as a new concept, comprising all organizational activities, new goods, new services, or new procedures [11]. The ICT is increasingly viewed as a means of establishing economic linkages and knowledge exchange with the outside world, as well as boosting the transparency and efficiency of reforms and releasing the constraints of existing stakeholders, according to the current conversation on ICT and Rwandan development [12]. Mobile phones are the sole device that the vast majority of low -income country individuals have for connecting to the information society. For instance, Tanzania, a neighbouring country, is one of the least developed nations; Tanzania ranks 160 out of 191 listed nations on the Human Development Index [13], with more than 30% of its 40 million -person po pulation living below the poverty line. The Internet can increase the effectiveness of agricultural markets like cell phones, and it is still the only sector that uses ICT. Developing countries are catching up quickly, though [14]. (2) Market -oriented an d innovative Market orientation is thought of as a way to put the marketing notion into practice and has been identified as a key factor in new product devel opment and company performance [15]. In a vertically coordinated marketing system, market orienta tion as a unified business philosophy in the supply chain demonstrates that participants in each link of the value chain are focused on serving the needs of the end customer and strategically coordinate with all other chain members to create a superior val ue proposition. These studies, on the whole, show a positive association between customer and competitive orientation and the impact on innovation. Market orientation, in particular, increases the ability to innovate through a consumer understanding, enhan cing production efficiency, sales, and earnings [16]. According to the study by [17], being customer - and competitor -oriented can improve innovation outcomes. More research revealed that customer and competitor orientation boosted the industry's readi ness to produce new goods NAAR, April 2023 , Volume 6, Issue 4, 105 -118 108 of 118 and that there is a strong association between customer and competitor orientation and incremental and radical innovation within the industry [11]. (4) Information and communication technology in agricultural extension innovatio n When information flows freely, the agri -food industry, like many others, has the potential to become stronger and more sustainable. Many stakeholders are involved in and rely on the local food supply chain, including primary producers, government agencie s, food safety authorities, transportation and distribution, consumers, and others. According to research done by [18] Both government and non -governmental organizations have prioritized the development of sustainable local food and agricultural business es in the Caribbean; improving knowledge