for promoting agricultural growth over the previous few years. Every human being's physical and economic survi val depends in some manner on agriculture. By 2050, the United Nations projects that there will be more than 9 billion people on the planet [6]. Food output will need to rise by 70% in order to feed everyone. It is difficult to support the world's farmers and fishermen in achieving this goal, but agriculture also plays a vital role in most nations' economies, particularly those in emerging nations. For instance, agriculture contributes one third of the GDP and three quarters of employment in Sub -Saharan Africa, but it also provides employment for 75 percent of the world's poor. In addition to preventing hunger for very poor households, agricultural development can increase incomes approximately four times more effectively than growth in any other ind ustry. These factors contribute to the explanation of why agricultural development is such an effective strategy for decreasing poverty worldwide and stimulating economic growth. Innovation and innovation systems are essential to and necessary for agricult ural progress. In both developed and developing countries, innovation is universally acknowledged as a key driver of increased productivity, competitiveness, and economic growth. Additionally, innovation is crucial for fostering social progress, generat ing money, and reducing poverty [7] NAAR, April 2023 , Volume 6, Issue 4, 105 -118 107 of 118 Effective bridging mechanisms are frequently needed for communication, translation, and mediation across boundaries among the numerous actors in agricultural research and development as well as between knowledge and actio n in order for innovation to occur. These innovation coordination tools might range from networks, associations, and extension services to ICT as well as other facilitating and bridging systems. By supporting the opening up of the research process to inter action and more accessible knowledge use, ICTs support the opportunity to improve knowledge flows among knowledge producers, disseminators, and users as well as, for example, among network partners. They also support the expansion of stakeholder participat ion in the innovation and governance process more effectively and at a lower cost [8] ICTs have more frequently been linked to providing cutting -edge services for data management and number crunching, geospatial applications, knowledge -based systems, and robotics, as well as better farm machinery and processes. However, connecting diverse innovation communities —whether at the local, subsectoral, or national level—has received less attention. Agriculture interventions in poor nations are already being posit ively impacted by ICTs that act as information "collectors," "analyzers," "sharers," and "disseminators." Access to information on prices, good farming practices, soil fertility, pest or disease outbreaks, and extreme weather has increased farmers' opportu nities to capitalize on markets, react to unfavorable agricultural conditions more effectively, and better interact with public service agents thanks in part to affordable mobile applications [8], [9] . Literature review (1) Information and communication techno logy in agricultural innovation The creation of new goods or services c an be thought of as innovation [10]. The o rganizational innovation is the creation of