GIs (of which 5,200 for wines and spirits). In spirits alone, of the €5.4 billion of EU exports, €3.5 billion pertain to GI- labeled spirits (Giovanucci et al. 2009). Figure 0.1 shows the disparities in value with an estimated worldwide value of GI pro ducts put (rather arbitrarily) at €50 billion. Legal protection at the international level Back in 1883, the Paris Convent ion on the Protection of In tellectual Property singled out, in its first article, the “indications of source or appellations of origin” as objects of protection. But these concepts were not defined, and the treaty provided for remedies only against the false use of indications of source (AOs are not mentioned again). The Madrid Agreement for the Repression of Fa lse or Deceptive Indications of Source of Goods of 1891, which consists of only 6 articl es, is the first treat y to (1) prevent the deceptive use of indications of source, (2) include a genericity exception, and (3) set a special regime for wines; the last two embodied in article 4 which reads: The courts of each country shall decide what appellations, on account of their generic character, do not fall within the provisions of this Agreement, regional appellations concerning the source of products of the vine being, howe ver, excluded from the reservation specified by this Article. The same year, the Madrid Agreement Concerning the International Registration of Marks was signed, which has been used si nce by many countries for the protection of GIs as collective, certification or guarantee trademarks. Interestingly, after World War I, France, probably fearing that Germany might want to supply the world of Champagne after the region around Reims had been badly damaged, included an article in the Treaty of Versailles providing for the “respect” of l egal, administrative and judicial decisions regarding “appellations for wine or spirits”, this was indeed the second time that wines (and spirits) were given special attention. 11 10 The European Commission reports that France's 593 GIs generate €19 billion Euro of value ( €16 billion for 466 wines and spirits GIs) and constitute the lifeline of 138 ,000 agricultural outfits. Simila rly, Italy's 420 GIs generate a value of €12 billion euro ( €5 billion for 300 wines & spirits GIs) and give employment to more than 300,000 citizens. In Spain, 123 GI products generate some €3.5 billion of income ( €2.8 billion for wines and spirits), more than €1 billion going into exports. 11 Hint by Stephen Clarke, 1000 Years of Anno ying the French, Bantam Press, March 2010. 35 Germany undertakes on condition that reciprocit y is accorded in these matters to respect any law, or any administrative or judicial decision given in conformity with such law, in force in any Allied or Associated State and duly commu nicated to her by the proper authorities, defining or regulating the right to any region al appellation in respect of wine or spirits produced in the State to which the region belongs, or the