situation is analogous to the impact of protection when GI-variety sales are not deterred. These results correspond to panel D of Figure 2.2 : () ()X YbX bWX Y XbX X bCSbXXbX X b − −∂∂=∂∂− −∂∂ ∂∂− =∂∂∂∂+∂∂ ∂∂=∂Π ∂ σσσσ For Foreign firms, a marginal increase in enforcement implies an increase in b, a decrease in GI-labeled goods Y and a shift upward of the demand curve for GI-original goods. Provided the initial ol igopoly equilibrium is stable, b X∂∂/ is positive. And an increase in sales implies a lower valuation of origin by the marginal consumer of the additional units of Foreign goods, leading to an increase in the final price of less than the change in . The first term has the sign of b X∂∂/σ , it is the loss/gain from all original units being priced at a new markup due to the increase in . The second term is always positive and reflects the profits from the additional units sold. b For Home consumers, the first term is the negative of the first term in the change in Foreign profits; it constitutes a net transfer from Home to Foreign. The main loss at the margins comes from the second term, the stricter enforcement rais es the price of GI- variety goods above their marginal cost of production (increase in ), an increase that applies to all units of GI-variety goods sold (the destruction of confiscated items, and/or periphrasis costs are a waste transferred to consumers in the form of a higher price). b The effect of enforcement on global welfare is ambiguou s. The first term captures the welfare gain owed to the increase in Foreig n sales. In this context, enforcement is pro- competitive (it offsets pa rt of the oligopoly distortion), as supply of original GI products increases as Foreign firms respond to the upward shift in the supply curves of their competitors. The second term, however, is a social loss owed to stricter enforcement, 22 equal to the higher cost of GI-variety sales ( XY−) above their marginal cost of production. 4 Concluding remarks This Chapter aims at evaluatin g the potential economic impa ct of the protection of a geographical indication that had acquired generic status in a given te rritory (in the trade jargon, this procedure is known as the cl aw-back of GIs). The focus is on the non- misleading international trade of GI-labeled products. Special attention is given to the competitive and welfare implications of protection by countrie s importing the original GI product. The paper has policy imp lications as it relates to current negotiations at the multilateral and bilateral leve ls of stronger standards of protection for particular geographical indications. It is shown that a strong level of prot ection that would drive national competitors with the Foreign GI out of th e market leads to a loss in gl obal welfare, something which is always expected when fewer varieties are ava ilable in the