as to the geographical origin of the good” (the “no-misleading requirement”) or “which constitutes an ac t of unfair competition”. The protection extends to the invalidation of the registration of a trademark which cont ains or consists of a GI if (and only if) it is misleading. These provisions apply against deceptive indications (i.e. indications that being literally true, falsely represent that the goods originate in another territory). Importantly, a GI must be protected in its country of origin and not have fallen into disuse to have the right to be protected abroad. The requirement that the GI be protected at th e national level does not apply to trademarks. And it is not a minor issue, particularly for firms in developing countries that witness with some frustration the use of their main traditio nal names by foreign producers in foreign and national markets and that nonetheless can do littl e about it for lack of protection within their own territories. One example, in Chile, are the producers of the Azapa olive (“aceituna de Azapa”, from the Azapa Valley), who have unsuccessfully tried to prevent producers in Bolivia and Peru to use the Azapa indicati on, one reason being the lack of legal domestic protection for the said indication in Chile in the first place. There is also an exception for those GIs that are reputed to have become generic terms, such as Moutarde de Dijon or Che ddar cheese, or Camembert, for which only Camembert de Normandie is protected as an AO in France (Giovanucci et al. 2009).16 In addition a ‘grand-fathering clause’ prevents the invalidation of trademarks identical or similar to a GI when the trademark has been acquired in good faith before 1994, or before the GI is protected in its country of origin. One example is Parma, which has been trademar ked in both Mexico and Canada, preventing Parma ham Italian producers to market their pr oducts with the Parma GI, and an estimated loss of €3 million per year in Canada al one (European Commission 2003). 15 The adoption of measures at the bo rder is mandatory regarding infringe ments to trademarks and copyrights (against counterfeits and pi rated goods respectively). 16 On the genericity issue, the protecti on of the Lisbon Agreement is broader: once an AO is protected, it cannot be deemed to have become generic as long as it maintains its protection in its country of origin. 38 Additional protection for wines and spirits There is an additional level of protection for GIs for wines and spirits. First, there is no “misleading requirement”. Second , the use of a GI is prevented even when the true origin is indicated or the GI is used in translation or accompanied by expressions such as “kind”, “type”, “style”, “imitati on” or the like (Article 23). Some exceptions (for homonymous GIs for example) and additional obligations apply (Article 24). In particular, the genericity exception applies to those GIs that are identical to the customary name of