of the marginal consumer [] ( )∗ ∗+ ≠Y V Y U b ] [ . The price of a generic pins down the demand for the GI-variety, the slope of the demand curve for the GI-variety with positive sales of generics is lower that its slope without, it exhibits a kink at ∗Z, so that demand to the right of ∗Z is given by , but demand to the left is given by V U+ V a+. For the same reason, the demand curve for GI-original goods exhibits kinks at both ∗Y and∗Z, with flatter slopes for lower indexes, from right to left, the segments are given by G V U++ , G V a++ and Panel A of .G b+ Figure 2.1 shows the demand curves for the three types, with utility functions assumed to be linear for simplicity. Total sale s (price times quantity) of generics, GI- variety and GI-original goods amount to areas A, B and C respectively. 11 Panel B of Figure 2.1 shows a scenario in which generics are not competitive and are therefore not consumed. The marginal cost for GI-variety is below the level that corresponds to the kink in demand for GI -variety (which is itself a function of the marginal cost of generics). Then, for ()a b b< , consumers with high indexes are better-off consuming GI-varieties than generics. A lower also impacts on sales of GI-original goods, as their closest competito r, from which they are differe ntiated only by origin, is much more competitive; area C in panel B is smaller than in panel A. The impact is lower the higher is the valuation of origin over that of the variety V, and the less differentiated is the GI-varie ty from the generic good. b G To facilitate comparisons under different regimes and scenarios, a dashed square corresponding to GI-variety sales under no protection/perfect competition is included in all panels of Figure 2.1 , Figure 2.2 and Figure 2.3 . 2.2.2 Regime (1): Foreign GI strongly protected Landes and Posner (2003) discu ss the economic implications of a “language monopoly” over words with primary (generic, descriptive) meanin g. If the producer of a brand or a GI could appropriate the generic name of the product, he would earn rents because of the added cost to his rivals of periphrasis. A regular PC (a former brand that today identifies any computer that is not an Apple), would be described as “a programmable electronic device for storing, manipulating and retrieving data” (Landes & Posner), while a Dijon mustard would be described as a “pungent and spic y mustard with a smooth, creamy texture that comes up to the nose ( qui monte au nez )”. The appropriation of generic na mes reduces the amount of words available to competitors to describe their prod ucts, shifting the indust ry supply curve up. On the other hand, giving generic status to a GI may increase the sear ch costs of consumers who believe