goods. Similar questions lead him and Darby and Karni to classify goods into search, experience and credence goods, on the basis of how consumers obtain or are conveyed information about the product characteristics, which are assumed known to the producer (Nelson, 1970 and Darby and Karni, 1973). Akerlof shows that information asymmetries between sellers and buyers regarding quality can either cause an entire market to collapse or contract it into an adverse selection of low-quality products. He looks at the effect of uncertainty with respect to quality on the part of consumers in a market for used cars. He proves that high quality cars would be driven out of the ma rket by “lemons”, leading to an overall reduction in the average quality of the goods offered, the price of the goods, and the size of the market, an overall Pareto inefficient outcome (A kerlof 1970). In this line of reasoning, Howse and Neven argue that the most favorable case for trademarks protection is that “repeat purchases help alle viate problems of moral hazard and adverse selection” (Howse and Neven 2005). Landes and Posner build upon Stigler’s co ncept of search costs to develop a formal model on the economics of trademarks. They model the effect of trademarks protection on pricing, output and quality and discuss the economic impact of monopoly over words. Trademarks help reduce search costs for consum ers and provide an incentive to increase quality (Landes and Posner, 1987 and 2003). Grossman and Shapiro model the non- deceptive trade of counterfeits, unbundling th e status and quality aspects of trademarked goods, in an analysis that can be mimicked to the so-called “misleading requirement” regarding GIs protection (Grossman and Shapiro 1988b). Crespi and Marette analyze whether generic advertising lowers the diffe rentiation among competing brands of the same good. They show that high-quality producers do not benefit from generic promotion when the benefits from generic advertising from increased demand are outweighed by the costs from lower product differentiation (Crespi and Marette, 2002; Crespi, 2007). Zago and Pick (2004) consider the welfar e impact of the adoption of labeling policies for agricultural commodities. They us e a model of vertical differentiation, and derive the effects on equilibrium and welfare of the introduction of the regulation. The emergence of two differentiated competitive markets leaves consumers and high-quality producers better off, while low- quality producers are worse o ff. They also show that with 6 high costs and low quality differences, the tota l welfare impact of the regulation can be negative; in addition when hig h-quality producers have market power, the regulation would have a negative effect on consumers. Moschini, Menapace and Pick (2008) a ssess the economics of geographical indications (GIs) within a vertical product differentiation framework. It is assumed that certification costs are needed for GIs to serve as (collective) credible quality certification devices, and production of high-quality prod uct is endogenously determined. Their findings are that GIs can support a competit ive provision of quality and lead