kink, the slope of the demand curve faced by Foreign firms is steeper than under no protect ion, as it includes the valuation of both variety and origin. Panel C of Figure 2.1 shows that after protection, sales of GI-original and of generics both fill the void left by GI-varieties. The maximum level of marginal cost at which GI-varieties are competitive ()c b is a function of the marginal cost of GI- original goods; the Figure corresponds to the case where ()c b b>′ . The fact that more consumers buy the or iginal GI good still implies a loss of welfare, as these consumers are paying a hi gh premia for origin, when in effect part of what they value is just the variety. These cons umers would rather pay less for a GI-variety than more for a GI-original good, they just don’t have the option anymore. GI-variety sales still competitive at b b>' Attempts at the replication of successful GI s are commonplace. For example, even if any reference to the use of the “méthode champenois e” is now unlawful in Europe for sparkling wines other than Champagne (and in many other countries following TRIPS special protection to wines and spirits), it is a known and documented fact that wines all over the world use the method, most notably a couple of European Protected Appellations of Origin, such as Crémant (France), Cava (Spain), Espuma nte Bairrada (Portugal) and Trento (Italy) (wikipedia). If GI-variety firms are still competitive, either because they effectively replicate the GI under a different name or because of branding, the equilibrium is the same as (A1) but with instead of . Panel D of b b>′ b Figure 2.1 shows that sales of generics and GI- original goods increase, while sales of GI-v ariety goods decrease in volume. Foreign and GI-variety sales are determined residually. If GI-variety sales are not deterred, the demand curve for GI-original goods is not steeper, it is shifted upwards, since the marginal cost that pins down the valuation for variety is higher, commanding a higher level of sales under marginal cost pricing in the protection scenario. This result is due to 13 Foreign firms appropriating the surplus over valuation of variety of the marginal consumer of GI-variety goods. 2.3 Oligopoly equilibrium In this section, the same analysis is perf ormed under the assumpt ion of oligopolistic competition by Foreign firms in the market for GI-original products. The assumption is that identical firms compete in that se ctor with Cournot pricing. Competition conditions, with the exception of the competitiveness of GI-variety goods once the Foreign GI is protected, are not essential to the analysis and are therefore omitted. N 2.3.1 Regime (0): Foreign GI taken as generic The inverse demand curves faced by Home an d Foreign firms are the same than under perfect competition, and th e equilibrium quantities ∗Z and ∗Y, corresponding to total sales and to sales of GI-labeled goods, are the same. This time however, Foreign firms