indications (GIs) within a vertical product differentiation framework. It is assumed that certification costs are needed for GIs to serve as (collective) credible quality certification devices, and production of high-quality prod uct is endogenously determined. Their findings are that GIs can support a competit ive provision of quality and lead to clear welfare gains, although they fall short of delivering the (constrained) first best. The main beneficiaries are consumers. Producers may also accrue some benefit if production of the high-quality products draws on scarce factors that they own. 1.2.2 Empirical studies Regarding empirical studies, the focus has b een on disentangling the layers of value embedded in a GI good price. A series of papers have estimated so-called hedonic price functions (Rosen 1974) for specia lty agricultural products, diff erentiating implicit prices for quality, varieties, and regional as well as brand reputations. To name a few, a pioneering study on wi ne for Australia and New Zealand, for vintages 1992 to 2000, suggests that for Austra lia, regional reputations in general have become increasingly significant through time, while price premia based on brand reputation have also shown to be signif icant (Schamel and Anderson 2003). A study on the U.S. wine industry, after correcting for va riety, regional origin, and age, shows that wine price premia related to qua lity signals may negate regional effects, a fact that may in addition bias estimated brand values (Schamel 2003). A study for Portugal provides empirical support to the hypoth esis that region of origin matters to consumers in the sectors of wine, olive oil and cheese (Santos and Ribeiro 200 5). Two recent papers focus on Bordeaux wines qualities and prices (Gergaud and Ginsburgh 2008 and Ashenfelter 2008). Recent compilations of ca se studies include Giovanucci et al. (2009), Vandecandelaere et al. (2009), El Benni and Reviron (2009) and Reviron et al. (2009). 2 International trade and GIs protection This section develops a model for the non-mis leading international trade of non-original GI-labeled goods with heterogeneous cons umers. The setting includes two countries (Home and Foreign), three varieties (GI-origin al, GI-variety, generic), two regimes (GI 7 taken as generic, GI protected as IPR), tw o scenarios for Foreign firms (fringe of competitors / monopolistic co mpetition). Only the equilibrium at Home is considered. 2.1 Assumptions 2.1.1 Supply side Assume two countries, Home and Foreign, and assume one product group with high substitutability and cross-price elasticities of goods within that group. Consistency in quality over time is ensured through repeat purchases. The re are three types of goods; within each type, goods are perfect substitutes: 1. GI-original goods are high-quality goods produced by Foreign firms and effectively protected at Foreign as geographical indications. 2. GI-variety goods are high-quality good s produced by Home firms. They closely follow the product specificatio ns of the GI-original good. 3. Generics are the low-quality generic vers ion of a similar product, produced by Home firms as well. For Foreign firms, two scenarios are explor ed. Either they