in conformity with such law, in force in any Allied or Associated State and duly commu nicated to her by the proper authorities, defining or regulating the right to any region al appellation in respect of wine or spirits produced in the State to which the region belongs, or the conditions under which the use of any such appellation may be permitted; and the importation, exportation, manufacture, distribution, sale or offering for sale of products or articles bearing regional appellations inconsistent with such law or order shall be prohibited by the German Government. Article 275 of the Treaty of Versailles of 28 June 1919. Building on these early milest ones, the appellation of origin was given a strong level of protection in 1958 under the Lisbon Ag reement. However th is Agreement only entered into force in 1966 and has had a limite d coverage. Geographical indications were given (virtually) universal attention and protection only in 1995 with the signature of the TRIPS Agreement. These agreements are presented in detail next. The section concludes with a brief note on the different regimes of protection existing at the national level, which, being closely tied to legal traditions, differ greatly across the globe. WIPO's Lisbon Agreement: limited coverage and membership The most well-known type of GI is the appellation of origin (AO), which has been protected since 1958 by the Lisbon Agreement and is defined as follows: Appellations of origin are the geographical name of a country, region, locality, which serves to designate a product originating th erein, the quality and characteristics of which are due exclusively or essentially to the geographical environment, including natural and human factors. Article 2 of the Lisbon Agreement. 12 The Lisbon Agreement counts 26 Members (5 additional signatories have pending ratifications). Its first signatories, back in 1966, were Cuba, France, Haiti, Israel, Mexico and Portugal. Figure 0.2 shows a moderate increase of membership over time (with a 15- year period of stagnation from 1978 to 1993). The Agreement covers 817 protected AOs, of which 508 belong to France, representin g 62% of the total (down from 81% in 1966).13 Nine countries haven’t registered a single AO.14 Roughly two thirds of registrations correspond to wine, followed by spirits, cheese, tobacco, mineral water and beer and malt. Registrations show a pattern of specialization of certain countries in particular sectors (Escudero 2001); AOs in wine, spirits and cheese are led by France, all registrations for tobacco are from Cuba, and the Czech Repu blic specializes in 12 The Lisbon Agreement for the Protec tion of Appellations of Origin and their International Registration was signed in 1958 and entered into force in 1966. It is open to signatories to the Pa ris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property of 1883; both ar e treaties ruled by the World Intellectual Property Orga nization (WIPO). 13 Correlative registration numbers go up to 891 due to 74 cancellations over time, of which 56 by France in 2001. 14 Burkina Faso, Congo, Costa