welfare gain if the valuation for va riety is low, and the valuation of origin is high. Industrialized countries stand to gain from this. This is because the term might compensate for the losses to those who stick to GI- varieties or to those who switch to generics. () dd c b GX X− +∫1 0 3. Relative efficiency in production is le ss critical than under perfect competition. 3.3 Enforcement Chile exemplifies the necessary equilibriu m between redressing ‘usurped’ GIs and compensating for the ‘claw-back’ of GIs; in the case of Chile with time and trade-offs within an FTA. The Chile-EU agreements on wines and sp irits include in their appendices the list of Chilean registered trademarks conflicting with the European GIs, for which protection was achieved with a phase-out period of 5 years for exports and of 12 years in the internal market. These brands include: Asti, Baden, Borgoño, Burdeos, Carmen Margaux, Cava Vergara, Champagne Grandier, Champaña Valdivieso, Cham penoise Rabat, La Rioja, Viña Manquehue Oporto for wines and Cognac Juanico, Co ña Col, Grappa San Remo for spirits. 8 If Home protects the GI, but enforcement is deficient, then Foreign firms face some competition from GI-variety firms. Producer s of GI-varieties internalize the risk of confiscation and of eventual fines, and end up operating at a higher marginal cost, which, by assumption, is such that the conditions fo r Home GI-varieties to compete are satisfied. The better the enforcement, the higher the ris k of confiscation and fines, the higher the marginal cost b and the higher the equilibrium pric e. It is assumed that confiscated goods are destroyed. If enforcement is streng thened, only legally marketed products will prevail, as long as the competition condition is satisfied. Only the oligopoly case is considered (for the pe rfect competition case, σ is set to 0). 8 Annexes V (wines) and VI (spirits) of the EU-Chile Association Agreement of 2002, with its appendices (219 and 18 pages respectively). 21 Alternatively, it can be assumed that Fore ign firms producing the GI-variety do abide by the law, and have then to incur a cost of periphrasis in labeling, marketing and advertising their products as they are forbi dden the shorthand use of the GI-label to signal their type. The effect is again an incr ease in marginal cost. Such a situation could derive, for instance, from an extension of the special protection of Article 23 for wines and spirits to all products, in which case the use of the GI is prevented even when the true origin is indicated or when used in tra nslation or accompanied by expressions such as “kind”, “type”, “style”, “imitation”, or the like. This situation is analogous to the impact of protection when GI-variety sales are not deterred. These results correspond to panel D of Figure 2.2 : () ()X YbX bWX Y XbX X bCSbXXbX X b − −∂∂=∂∂− −∂∂ ∂∂− =∂∂∂∂+∂∂ ∂∂=∂Π ∂ σσσσ For Foreign firms, a marginal increase in enforcement