producers. 19 The EU has the strongest position, defined in a proposal dated June 2005 (TN/IP/W/11). The EU calls for the TRIPS Agreement to be amended by adding an annex to Article 23.4 requesting that the registration of a GI would establish a ‘rebut table presumption’ that the term is to be protected by all Members, except in a country that makes a reservation ‘on permitted grounds’ (such as genericity) within a specified pe riod (for example, 18 months). It also favors the extension of the higher protection of GIs for wines and spirits to all products. Their opponents favor the statu quo . These countries are satisfied with the current level of protection and would favor a de cision by the TRI PS Council to set up a voluntary system where notified GIs would be registered in a data base. The governments participating in the system would have to consult the database when taking decisions on protection in their own countries. Non-pa rticipating members would be ‘encouraged’ but ‘not obliged’ to consult the database. They al so counter the ‘usurpation’ argument by recalling that European colonial rule and immigration led GIs to be adopted and popularized as generic terms outside Europe. They argue that current users of European GIs outside Europe would be ‘confiscated’ of the value of their investments if a monopoly over the GI label were to be imposed. 20 David Spencer (2003), former Ambassador of Australia to the WTO, has argued that “enhancing GI protection in the way some WTO Members have proposed would: erode, rather than strengthen, competition; lead to rent-seekin g at the expense of the consumer; add costs to producers and governments; do nothing to open up markets; not guarantee more sales or higher returns for developing countries; undermin e the cultural heritage of those countries in the Americas, Oceania and Africa which were based on immigration; not guarantee that developing countries could protect the terms they would like to protect”. WIPO/GEO/SFO/03/25 of 15 July 2003. 19 The Friends of GIs include: Bulgaria, the Euro pean Union, Guinea, India, Jamaica, Kenya, Madagascar, Mauritius, Morocco, Pa kistan, Romania, Sri Lanka, Swit zerland, Thailand, Tunisia and Turkey. 20 At Doha, this position is represented in a "joint proposal" submitted in 2005 and revised in 2008 (TN/IP/W/10/Rev.2), which was sponsored by Argentina, Aust ralia, Canada, Chile, Cost a Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Japan, Korea, Mexico, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Paraguay, Chinese Taipei, South Africa and the United States. 40 Bilateral Agreements: main tools for an effective protection Several bilateral agreements on GIs have been negotiated based on the TRIPS clause that mandates negotiations on GIs for wines an d spirits when requested by a WTO Member; although most prevalently under the umbrella of Free Trade Agreements (FTAs), which facilitate trade-offs in other sectors in the course of the negotiations. Regarding wines and spirits alone, the Europe an Commission has concluded agreements with Albania, Australia, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Ca nada, Chile, Croatia, Macedonia, Mexico, Montenegro, South