on the or igin of the good, to them, “the real thing” they import is worth more than the na tional “copies”, as it re flects a given quality, reputation or other characteristic of the go od which are essentially attributable to its geographical origin, the terroir, and that are not necessarily replicable outside the GI region. Therefore, Home firms, if allowed to use the Foreign GI label, achieve two things: they unbundle the vari ety and origin aspects of the goods, and they diminish the market power of GI-original firms by co mpeting in the same variety segment. There are heterogeneous consumers indexed from 0 to for their level of sophistication in consumptio n. Utility is assumed to be additive. This assumption simplifies the analysis and has the desired prope rty of allowing for cross-price substitution effects to be embedded in the utility functio n, reflecting on the capacity of the non- misleading GI labels to unbundle origin, from variety, and variety from genericity.D D 5 The 5 I explored with an alternative specification, the popula r vertical product differentiation structure of Mussa and Rosen (1978). This structure assumes a mass of heterogeneous consumers indexed by θ, a preference parameter for which a uniform distribution ()θG is assumed in the 0, 1 interval. Goods are indexed by their level of quality ; is the price of the good. The indirect utility function is given by: qp ⎩⎨⎧−=otherwise 0bought is good the if p qUθ 9 more sophisticated is the consumer (the lower is his index), the higher is his utility from (and therefore his willingness to pay for) consumption of any good, variety and origin. is the utility function from consum ption of any of the three types, is the additional utility derive d from consumption of the GI variety, and is the additional utility derived from consumption of the original GI produ ct. In addition, each of these three functions is assumed to be monotonica lly decreasing, implying that their inverse functions exist and that individuals’ demand curves do not cross. ] [d U ] [d V ] [d G A Foreign firm finds its market among consumers with low indexes ; while consumers with intermediate indexes will pu rchase Home GI-variety products and those with high indexes will opt for generics. Ea ch consumer consumes one unit of good, or none, but no more. Total sales of GI-original goods amount to d X; total sales of GI- labeled goods amount to Y; and total sales amount to Z, with DZ≤. Therefore total sales of GI-variety goods are and total sales of generics are X Y− YZ−. 2.2 Perfect competition equilibrium 2.2.1 Regime (0): Foreign GI taken as generic Section 5388(c) of Title 26 of the United States Code establishes special rules regarding the use of GIs deemed semi-generic. In general, these may be used to designate wines of an origin other than that indicated by the GI if the true place of origin of the wine is