valuation of origin minus the price premium on those units, a net loss. The second term is the loss from valuation of variety minus the saving on those units, a net loss. In case GI-variety producers are still competitive, the same losses appear in D1 (panel D of Figure 2.1 ), in addition to a third term that corresponds to the extra cost paid on their GI-varieties by those who do not switch, a net loss. Although a loss in global welfare is always expected when fewer varieties are available in the market, some situations arise: 1. If the valuation of variety V is relatively flat at a low level, implying that only the “real thing” is of some value to consumers (and G is either steep or flat at a high level), sales of GI-varieties would be low with or without pr otection, the relative efficiency of Foreign firms is what matte rs to limit the losses once protection is granted. 2. In contrast, if the valuation of origin G is relatively flat at a low level, and valuation of variety is high ( V is steep or flat at a hi gh level), sales of Foreign firms would be low, and protection would i mply that generic sales would increase disproportionately. Again, the relative effi ciency of Foreign firms is what matters. 3. This suggests altogether that industria lized countries, with sophisticated consumers (high , low V) and higher relative costs ( and a close to ), tend to lose less from protecting foreign G Is than developing countries, which have less sophisticated consumers and lower relative costs of production. G b c 3.2 Oligopoly In the oligopoly case, four cases arise after pro tection: GI-variety sales are competitive or not, GI-original sales increase or decrease after protection. In all these cases, Foreign firms make profits and sales of generics increase: Z Y Y XX X i < < <>−=ΔΠ 0 10 0 1 10σσ 19 To make economic sense, it is assumed that net profits increase in both scenarios.7 This constitutes a net transfer from Home to Foreign, the decrease in sales exacerbates the oligopoly distortion. In case GI-original sales increase, net global welfare is formulated in identical terms to that under perfect competition, but the e quilibrium quantities, and thereby the range of the integrals, differ: () ( ) ( ) () ( ) ( ) ( ) (1 1 110 1 1 0 0 11 00 11 0 : 0 2: 0 2 X Y b b dd b a V dd c b G W Y Ddd b a V dd c b G W Y CZ Y Y X X Y YX XY XX X − −′− − + ∫− − + ∫= Δ >− +∫− − + ∫= Δ =< < ≤ < ) The first term in equations C2 and D2 starts positive at and might or not become negative; implying that consumers who switch to GI-original goods might be better