Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights USTR United States Trade Representative WIPO World Intellectual Property Organization WTO World Trade Organization 3 The economics of claw-back 1 Introduction 1.1 The non-misleading trade of non-original GI-labeled goods In 1996, based on a survey conducted over 12,800 nationals of the European Union,1 the European Commission concluded that the na me “Feta” evoked a Greek origin among European consumers, and thus registered th e name “Feta” as a protected geographical indication2 to cover Feta cheese produced in Greece. Denmark, Germany and France contested the decision, on the basis that Feta cheese had been produced and legally marketed under the name “Feta” in their countries for a long time. The European Court of Justice concluded that the Commission had played down the extant situ ation in the Member States, and annulled the regulation on the basis that Feta had become th e generic name of a particular type of cheese. After new evidence was submitted by the Euro pean Commission, the ECJ overturned its own previous ruling in October 2005, removing th e right of any non-Greek EU producers to use the name Feta for cheese.3 The Feta case is illustrative of the interests at stake regarding the identification of goods through indications of geographical origin, when legal protection of the indication is sought on grounds that a given quality, reputa tion or other characte ristic of the good is linked to its geographical origin (refer to Appe ndix D for a note on the international legal regime for Geographical Indications - GIs). First, there is a trend towards agricultural products differentiation that makes it urgent for users of geographical indications to obtain protection to add niche market value to their products. Second, there is the potential loss to producers that currently la bel their products with the said indication taken as a generic term or registered as a trade mark (such as Budweiser beer in the US, or Parma in Mexico and Canada). Third, there is th e consumers’ right not to be misled as to the true origin of the goods they buy. The parallel with trademarks is informat ive. There are cases in which terms that began as trademarks eventually became generic, naming the product, such as ‘PC’, ‘Rollerblades’ and ‘Thermos’. And there is the opposite case of descriptive terms that eventually acquired secondary meaning as br ands, such as ‘All Bran’ and ‘Holiday Inn’ (Landes & Posner 2003). GIs are confronted with similar issues, for the most part of the first type (a GI becoming generic), since geographical names are usually not of the 1 Eurobarometer 41.0, Spring 1994, qu estions Q.6-15, p.3-6. Final Report on results mentioned in the ECJ Decision. 2 More precisely, as a Protected Designation of Origin (PDO). 3 Federal Republic of Germany and Kingdom of Denmark v. Commission of the European Communities, European Court of Justice, Joined Ca ses C-465/02 and C-466/02, 25 October 2005. 4 descriptive type. The determination of gen eric versus secondary meaning status,