2. GI-variety goods are high-quality good s produced by Home firms. They closely follow the product specificatio ns of the GI-original good. 3. Generics are the low-quality generic vers ion of a similar product, produced by Home firms as well. For Foreign firms, two scenarios are explor ed. Either they operate under perfect competition, with price equal to marginal cost and average cost (zero-profits). Or Foreign firms are identical firms, fixed, that operate under oligopolistic competition with Cournot Nash-equilibrium strategic pricing. Eac h firm takes its riva ls’ output levels as given, and chooses its own output level to max imize its profit. Foreign firms produce at a marginal cost of production assumed constant at N N .c At Home, Foreign firms face a competitive fringe of Home firms with marginal cost pricing and zero profits (elastic supply and marginal cost equal to average cost). GI- variety goods are produced at a constant marginal cost of b, with . Generics are produced at a marginal cost of , with c b< a .c b a<< 2.1.2 Regimes At Home, the Foreign GI is protected acco rding to the TRIPS Agreement. Two regimes are envisaged: • Under regime (0), Home only complies with the “non-misleading requirement”, the Foreign GI is not protected as such. This implies that, following the genericity exemption (or the grand-fathering clause on genericity for wines and spirits), GI- variety producers are allowed to market th eir products with the Foreign GI label, 8 although no single Home firm can approp riate the GI as a trademark. In addition, it is assumed that consumers are not misled as to the true origin of the goods they buy (i.e. the consumer knows that French Feta is made in France). • Under regime (1), Home protects the Foreig n GI as such, and the high level of protection is granted (the one presently a ccorded to wines and spirits only); thereby Home firms have to stop using the GI label for their GI-variety goods. To differentiate themselves from low-quality generics, GI-varie ty firms have to incur an extra cost. The cost of the enforcement of protection is assumed to be completely financed by the State, and therefore does not impact the investment or production decisions of Foreign or Home firms. 2.1.3 Demand side It is assumed that the GI label has an intrin sic value to consumers in that it lowers their search costs in finding the particular variety th ey like; in effect th e label is assumed to reflect certain product specifications (“st andard of identity” under U.S. law) that add value to GI-labeled goods (both GI-original and GI-variety goods) over generics. Home consumers also place a value on the or igin of the good, to them, “the real thing” they import is worth more than the na tional “copies”, as it re flects a given quality, reputation or other characteristic of the go od which are essentially attributable to its geographical origin, the terroir, and that are