a WTO Member; although most prevalently under the umbrella of Free Trade Agreements (FTAs), which facilitate trade-offs in other sectors in the course of the negotiations. Regarding wines and spirits alone, the Europe an Commission has concluded agreements with Albania, Australia, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Ca nada, Chile, Croatia, Macedonia, Mexico, Montenegro, South Africa, Switzerland and the United States.21 It is essentially through these bilateral agreements that the EU has been able to ensure the protection of its GIs where these were exploited as generic terms, notwithstandin g the grand-fathering clauses and the genericity exemptions. In the trade jargon, this practice has been labelled the “claw-back” of GIs. Since most GIs are agricultural products, agriculture-based economies could be inclined to advocate for a strong internatio nal protection of GIs, although it does not seem to be the case, mainly due to the use of GIs as generic terms. It is worth noticing, however, that some developed countries have become demandeurs in this area, especially those few countries that have GIs with so me international reco gnition (Escudero 2001). These demands are often channeled through bi lateral negotiations, a fact that could signal a perception of potential imbala nce in the eventual outcome of multilateral negotiations. Protection at the national level I refer to (Blakeney n.a.) and (OECD 2000) fo r a detailed description of national systems of protection of geographical indications. What is relevant for the purposes of this paper is that the TRIPS Agreement does not specify th e legal means to protect GIs; it is left to each member to decide what those means are. Members usually provide protection to GIs by means of (i) laws focusing on business practices; (ii) trademark law; (iii) special or sui generis protection. In particular, a few countries protect GIs under collective, certification or guarantee mark regimes (such as the United States), or under common law action of ‘passing off’ (Escudero 2001). A determinant feature common to most nati onal regimes, however, is that the registration of a GI as a trade mark is usually not allowed, either explicitly by law or through jurisprudence. This does not necessa rily imply that the GI is recognized a 21 The list of Bilateral agreements in wine and spirits negotiated by th e European Commission appears in the following website: http: //ec.europa.eu/ag riculture/markets/wine/third/index_en.htm. 41 protection as such, as in most cases, the registration of a GI as a tr ademark is refused on grounds that the GI has become a generic te rm. In any case, the impact of national GI regimes is not guaranteed; the markets often require some maturity for a GI to create value. Chile established a national system of appellations of origin for wines by means of Decree Nº 464 of 1995 of the Ministry of Agriculture.22 Until recently, however, the impact of this Decree was rather limited, since trademarks and gr ape varieties (not GIs) tended to prevail at the consumer level. This has been steadily changi ng as a few GIs have