2 More precisely, as a Protected Designation of Origin (PDO). 3 Federal Republic of Germany and Kingdom of Denmark v. Commission of the European Communities, European Court of Justice, Joined Ca ses C-465/02 and C-466/02, 25 October 2005. 4 descriptive type. The determination of gen eric versus secondary meaning status, eventually, is the problem of the courts, which adjudicate on a case by case basis. Under trademarks law, generic words cannot be trademarked at all. In fact; if a brand becomes a generic name, trademark pr otection immediately ceases (Landes & Posner 2003). Although the same standard us ually applies to GIs with respect to trademarks (a generic GI can’t be trademarked), the countries that are demandeurs regarding GIs would like to impede GI protec tion to be ceased in those territories in which GIs have become generic. The standard of protection solicited by these countries is thereby larger than that granted to trademarks currently.4 In this section, I follow the approach adopted by Grossman and Shapiro (1988b) in a paper on foreign counterfeiting of status goods to develop a model for the non-misleading international trade of non-original GI-labeled goods with heterogeneous consumers. The setting includes two countrie s and three varieties within the same product group. I analyze the impact of the protection of GIs and of the enforcement of such a protection in Home and Foreign firms an d consumers, in the case of perfect and oligopolistic competition. 1.2 Literature review 1.2.1 The economics of information A branch of the economics of information has analyzed and modeled the market failures and distortions stemming from information a symmetries between buyers and sellers, the tools available to correct these distortio ns and the policy implications thereof. In his 1961 pioneering piece, Stigler shows the role of advertising and reputation in economizing on search costs and solving info rmation asymmetries. He analyzes the “ascertainment of market price”, stressing that since price dispersion is “ubiquitous, even for homogenous goods”, it has to be a “manifestation of ignorance in the market”. Stigler focuses on the way the gap between buyers and sellers information may be bridged through advertising, but he concludes th at “reputation is a word which denotes 4 Although under the Lisbon Agreement for the Protecti on of Appellations of Orig in and their International Registration of 1958 of the World Intellect ual Property Organization, once an appellation of origin is protected, it cannot be deemed to have become generic as long as it maintains its protection in its country of origin. 5 persistence of quality, and reputation commands a price (or exacts a penalty) because it economizes on search costs” (Stigler 1961). Nelson pioneers the concepts of search and experience goods. Similar questions lead him and Darby and Karni to classify goods into search, experience and credence goods, on the basis of how consumers obtain or are conveyed information about the product characteristics, which are assumed known to the producer (Nelson, 1970 and Darby and Karni, 1973). Akerlof shows that