room to expand output and threat en the equilibrium for GI-varieties, which is now determined residually from the right by the cost of generics (which pins down demand), and from the left by Foreign firms which can easily exerci se their market power to reduce sales of GI-varieties. If the market power of Foreign firms were to disappear, we would be back to the situation under perfect competition with GI-variety sales reduced to area B. Panel B of Figure 2.2 shows a scenario in which GI-varieties are not competitive because GI-original goods are low cost. That would be the effect, for example, of a 6 If, for GI-variety producers, average cost were lower than marginal cost (ruled out by assumption to simplify the analysis, but highly probable), they would se e an increase in producer surplus (profits). 15 productivity shock or of a State subsidy. In that case, GI-varieties are out of the market with or without protection. Protection has no effect as the upper segment of the demand curve is never reached. Sales of generics in that case are affected as well, they are lower. 2.3.2 Regime (1): Foreign GI strongly protected GI-variety sales effectively banned Assuming that GI-variety goods are not compet itive anymore after protection, but that generics are, the inverse demand curve faced by Foreign firms is the same as under protection/perfect competition (steeper than before protection). This time, however, with Cournot pricing, output is defined by the first order condition for profit maximization, which is that marginal reve nue equal marginal cost: () [] [] [] ) ( :] [ ] [ ] [ : : 2 G VNXX G X V a c X p eqmX G X V a X P demand originalGI C ′+′+ + + = =++= − ∗ ∗ ∗ ∗ where V and G are the negative partial derivatives of V and G with respect to each firm’s quantity. The new closest competitor , generics, benefits from the distortion created by the oligopoly with hi gher sales at the same price than under protection This because for a few consumers, it is not worth it to switch to the e xpensive GI-original, they are better off with th e generic. Again consumers ar e worse off, a result always obtained when there are fewer varieties in a market. ′′ a The equilibrium price for Foreign product s under protection is unambiguously higher than when protection is not grante d, because the demand curve is steeper. However, with Cournot pricing, two results are possible for Foreign firms regarding volumes. Panel C of Figure 2.2 shows the general case under which the marginal revenue curve for a regime of protection is at the ri ght of the marginal revenue curve under no protection, so that GI-original sales under protection are higher than under no protection. Panels A and B of Figure 2.3 has an example with a marginal revenue curve under protection that is steeper and to the left of the