by means of Decree Nº 464 of 1995 of the Ministry of Agriculture.22 Until recently, however, the impact of this Decree was rather limited, since trademarks and gr ape varieties (not GIs) tended to prevail at the consumer level. This has been steadily changi ng as a few GIs have acquired an increasingly good reputation. For example, the success of th e Casablanca Valley wineries in marketing their wines, particularly their Chardonnay and Sauvig non Blanc, led the wine producers and grape farmers to organize themselves into an Association in 2001.23 Last but not least, there is a developmen tal issue which is linked to legal traditions. While the current international framework of protection is in harmony with the European tradition of protection of geographi cal names (such as the French ‘Appellations d’Origine Contrôlée’), it has proved less suited to protect indications th at originated in a particular locality but that are not geographica l names properly, although nothing in the TRIPS Agreement states that a GI has to be a geographical ‘name’ (contrary to the Lisbon Agreement). For instance, Greece and India have found it difficult to counter arguments of genericity regarding terms such as Feta cheese, Basmati rice and Darjeeling tea. The European Commission had to go all the way to the European Court of Justice against its own Member countries to establis h the exclusivity of Greece over the use of the name Feta. On the socioeconomic and developmental aspects of GIs, I refer to Rangnekar (2003a), the OECD (2000), Marette (2005) and Giovanucci et al. (2009). All these papers include their own extensive literature reviews. These papers take stock of the major theories that have been or may be applied to the topic, and review the major models developed in related issues, particularly trademarks. The main topics involve information asymmetries and market failure; product differentiation and competitive advantage; market access and market segmentation; competition policy (oligopolies) and state aid; and rents and social welfare. 22 The only other product that has been granted a similar level of protection in Chile is Pisco, the national eau- de-vie made of grape, protecte d by D.F.L. N ° 181 of 16 May 1931. 23 The Asociación de Empresarios Vitivi nícolas del Valle de Casa blanca was created in June 2001 and regroups the Casablanca producers of grapes and of wine (http: //www.casablancavalley.cl/). 42