the promotion of a fruitful scientifi c exchange amongst scholars from diverse legal systems, traditions and generations. Th is multidisciplinary and multicultural exchange has in fact become fundamental for a mature legal framework, from both the market practice and the law in action standpoints. A particular focus will be given on European law, where one can fi nd the roots of the legislation and regulation in the domestic legal systems, and on the analysis of diff erent levels, in line with the current complexity of this legal sector. Table of contents Contributors 1 Anna Maria Mancaleoni, Introduction: Directive (EU) 2019/633 as a piece in the puzzle of the agri-food market regulation 3 PART I The supranational framework Ferdinando Albisinni, Unfair trading practices in the agri-food chain: the EU framework and the transnational dimension 23 Luigi Russo, Directive (EU) 2019/633 on unfair trading practices in the agri-food chain 53 Irene Canfora, The «fair price» in agri-food chain 75 Raffaele Torino, Bargaining power and unfair trading practices in the agri-food chain 91 Lorenzo Bairati, Contractual governance in global food systems 105 Enrico Bonadio, Magali Contardi, Nicola Lucchi, Extending GI protection within and beyond the EU 123 Roberta Peleggi, Agricultural production under contract: an overview 139 Luigi Costato, Covid and agri-food chain 161 PART II The Member States’ framework in the light of the implementation of Directive (EU) 2019/633 Bert Keirsbilck, Elisa Paredis, The regulation of B2B relations in the agri-food chain in Belgium 177 Catherine Del Cont, Was the transposition into French law of EU Directive 2019/633 on unfair practices in commercial relationships in the agri-food chain pointless? 209 Elisabeth Kraft, Will the implementation of the UTP Directive ban the «fear factor»? A perspective from Germany 227 Antonio Jannarelli, The implementation of Directive no. 633 of 2019 in the Italian experience 249 Michał Berek, Barbara Jelonek-Jarco, Dominika Mróz-Krysta, Szymon Romanow, Julita Zawadzka, The regulation of contractual relationships in the agri-food chain in Poland 279 Pablo Amat-Llombart, The regulation of the agri-food chain in Spain: food contracts and unfair trading practices 341 Anikó Keller, The regulation of contractual relationships in the agri-food chain in Hungary 377 Michael Cardwell, Bargaining power in the agri-food supply chain: a United Kingdom perspective 421 1Contributors Ferdinando Albisinni, Professor of Agri-Food Law , Universitas Mercatorum, Rome. Pablo Amat Llombart, Full Professor of Civil Law , Polytechnic University, Valencia. Lorenzo Bairati, Associate Professor of Comparative Private Law , University of Gastronomic Sciences, Pollenzo. Michał Berek, Assistant Professor of Civil Law , Jagiellonian University, Cracow. Enrico Bonadio, Reader in Intellectual Property Law , City, University of London. Irene Canfora, Full Professor of Agricultural Law , University of Bari Aldo Moro. Michael Cardwell, Professor Emeritus of Agricultural Law , University of Leeds. Magali Contardi, Post-doc Research Fellow , Sant’Anna School of Advanced Studies, Pisa. Luigi Costato, Professor Emeritus of European, Agricultural and Food Law , University of Ferrara. Catherine Del Cont, Associate Professor of Private law , University of Nantes. Antonio Jannarelli, Full Professor of Agricultural Law (Retired ), University of