26 may infringe the PDO Queso Manchego, as these figurative signs are capa-ble of creating a “conceptual proximity” to the GI and directly evoke the famous cheese in the consumer’s mind. This interpretation was later adopt-ed by the Spanish Supreme Court in the national proceedings following the preliminary ruling of the CJEU 27. 24 Indeed, Article 13(1)(d) of Regulation 1151/12 provides that the GI holder is entitled to prevent «any other practice liable to mislead the consumer as to the true origin of the product». 25 Syndicat interprofessionnel de defense du fromage Morbier v Societe Fromagere du Livradois SAS (C-614/17). 26 What was also used by the PDO owner’s competitor was the term ‘Rocinante’, which is the name of the horse ridden by Don Quixote in Cervantes’ novel. 27 Judgement no 451 of the Spanish Supreme Court of 18 July 2019. 130E. Bonadio, N. Lucchi, M. Contardi These two judgments seem to go too far. Indeed, it can be argued that granting a monopoly on the shape of a product, as well as on images that merely evoke characters and landscapes of the geographical area associated with a particular GI, is inherently contrary to the principles of free trade and competition. In particular, with regard to the Morbier decision, it could be argued, as Andrea Zappalaglio notes, that geographical indications are not trademarks and, in particular, «are not signs arbitrarily designed by their users» 28. It is therefore far-fetched to conclude that a dark blue line on a cheese resulting from a well-known and non-unique production technique has acquired distinctive character as if it were a trademark. Finally, what about the Champanillo case? The Comité Interprofessionnel du Vin de Champagne - the association of Champagne producers that administers the homonymous PDO - has filed a lawsuit in Spain to stop a tapas bar chain from using the word “champanillo”. The tapas bar chain’s defense argument was that it uses the term as a brand name for catering establishments and that such use cannot cause confusion with wines from the Champagne region. The CJEU did not allow this point to stand. In particular, it ruled that a PDO protects not only products but also practices relating to services. The Court also clarified that in order to determine whether there is an “evocation” to a PDO, it is not necessary to first establish that the product protected by the PDO and the disputed sign are identical or similar. It is sufficient that when the consumer comes across the disputed term, he immediately thinks of the PDO product, in this case champagne 29. Thus, the concept of “evocation” does not require that the two signs, the protected sign and the challenged sign, be identical or in any way similar. What is required, rather, is a sufficiently clear and direct link between the contested designation and the PDO in the mind of the average informed European consumer. Once again, the CJEU has extend-ed the scope of protection against the evocation to a PDO, thus