the CJEU found that a sorbet could be marketed under the name “Champagner Sorbet” if it featured, as one of its essential characteristics, a taste that was predominantly attributable to the Champagne wine. 21 Syndicat interprofessionnel de defense du fromage Morbier v Societe Fromagere du Livradois SAS (C-490/19) EU:C:2020:1043; [2021]. On this case see S. Martin-L. Bourdeau, Judge a cheese by its cover, says the Court of Justice in the Morbier case , 43 Eur. Intell. Prop. Rev . 475 (2022). 22 Fundacion Consejo Regulador de la Denominacion de Origen Protegida Queso Manchego v Industrial Quesera Cuquerella SL (C 614/17), EU:C:2019:344, at [18], [25]. 23 Comité Interprofessionnel du Vin de Champagne v GB (C-783/19) EU:C:2021:713; [2021] Extending the protection of geographical indications within and beyond the EU 129In Morbier , the CJEU concluded that a PDO is protected not only against the use of the registered name by third parties, but also against the imitation of the distinctive shape or appearance characteristic of the GI-protected product: in this case, that feature was the blue horizontal line of the French creamy cheese Morbier. The Court recalled that the scope of protection of GI is so broad that its owner may prohibit others from imitating the shape or appearance characteristic of the GI product if such imitation is liable to mislead consumers as to the true origin of the product in question 24. To resolve disputes, therefore, the CJEU went on, it must be determined whether that representation is likely to mislead a reasonably well-informed (as well as a reasonably observant and circumspect) consum-er, taking due account of all factors, such as the way in which the products are presented and marketed to the public. Furthermore, the Court noted that the protected name and the product identified by it are inevitably closely linked, as the PDO is protected because it designates a product with certain qualities or characteristics. Therefore, imitation of the shape or appearance of a GI product may constitute an infringement of that GI even if it is not reproduced on the product or its packaging. Moreover, in Queso Manchego , the Court extended the concept of evocation to figurative elements, since such elements have the potential to «trigger directly in the consumer’s mind the image of products whose name is registered on account of their ‘conceptual proximity’ to such a name» 25. Queso Manchego is a PDO owned by the homonymous Fundación, which protects the famous cheese from the Spanish region of Castilla La Mancha. The CJEU held that the sale of cheese products using images evoking the famous character Don Quixote de La Mancha, landscapes with wind-mills and sheep, and a bony horse (all elements from Cervantes’ novel) 26 may infringe the PDO Queso Manchego, as these figurative signs are capa-ble of creating a “conceptual proximity” to the GI and directly evoke the famous cheese in the consumer’s mind. This interpretation was later adopt-ed by the Spanish Supreme Court in the national proceedings following the preliminary ruling of