identical or in any way similar. What is required, rather, is a sufficiently clear and direct link between the contested designation and the PDO in the mind of the average informed European consumer. Once again, the CJEU has extend-ed the scope of protection against the evocation to a PDO, thus granting protection that in some respects goes even further than that of trademarks. 28 See e.g. A. Zappalaglio, EU Geographical Indications and the protection of producers and their investments. In: The Cambridge Handbook of Investment-Driven Intellectual Property , E. Bonadio, P . Goold (eds), Cambridge University Press, 2022. 29Comité Interprofessionnel du Vin de Champagne v GB (C-783/19) EU:C:2021:713; [2021] , §53 ff. Extending the protection of geographical indications within and beyond the EU 131 3. Old World v New World As mentioned, protecting GIs via PDOs and PGIs is at the heart of Europe’s agricultural and food policy. But other countries, particularly in the so-called New World (i.e. the former colonies of European countries), do not offer geographical names the same strong protection as the EU does 30. The US, Canada and other states for example do protect geographical signs, but they do so via trademark law based on the ‘first come first served’ rule. This may create conflicts between European producers of wine, cheese and ham and local competitors in the new world. Chile, for instance, had not adopted a comprehensive law on geographical indications until 2005 - and several Chilean producers of wine in the past used European GIs. One of these was Champagne (which is protected in more than 120 countries). Chile claimed that this term had been used locally by several Chilean wine-makers as both a generic term and a component of registered trademarks, 30 Scholarly work on the dichotomy “old world” / “new world” in the field of GIs is extensive. See F . Addor and A. Grazioli, Geographical indications beyond wines and spirits: A roadmap for a better protection for geographical indications in the WTO/TRIPS agreement (2002) 5 J.World Intell.Prop . 865; J.M. Cortès Martin, The WTO TRIPS agreement: the battle between the Old and the New World over the protection of geographical indications (2004) 7(3) The Journal of World Intellectual Property 287; A. Kamperman Sanders, Future Solution for Protecting Geographical Indications Worldwide (2005) 25 Studies in Industrial Property and Copyright Law (IIC Studies); M. Perez Pugatch, The intellectual property debate: Perspectives from law, economics and political economy (Edward Elgar Publishing, 2006); I. Calboli, Expanding the protection of geographical indications of origin under TRIPS: Old debate or new opportunity (2006) 10 Marq. Intell. Prop. L. Rev . 181; G.E. Evans-M. Blakeney, The protection of geographical indications after Doha: Quo vadis? , (2006) 9(3) Journal of International Economic Law 575; I. Calboli, Intellectual property protection for fame, luxury, wines and spirits: Lex specialis for a corporate “dolce vita” or a “good-quality life”? , in Intellectual Property and General Legal Principles (Edward Elgar Publishing, 2015a); I. Calboli, Of markets, culture, and terroir: the unique economic and