2023 16AGRI-FOOD MARKET REGULATION AND CONTRACTUAL RELATIONSHIPS IN THE LIGHT OF DIRECTIVE (EU) 2019/633 Consumatori e Mercato 16Edited by Anna Maria Mancaleoni Raffaele TorinoA. M. Mancaleoni , R. Torino (edited by ) AGRI-FOOD MARKET REGULATION AND CONTRACTUAL RELATIONSHIPSThe volume analyses the regulation of contractual relationships between the various players involved in the agri-food chain in the light of Directive (EU) 2019/633 «on unfair trading practices in business-to-business relationships in the agricultural and food supply chain» and its implementation by the Member States. The Directive constitutes a piece of the overall regulation of the agri- food market and intersects with other EU and national disciplines. In this perspective, in the first part of the volume the regulation of contractual relationships in the agri-food chain is framed in the context of the Common Agricultural Policy and competition law, highlighting also the connections with other relevant profiles of market regulation. In its second part, the analysis focuses on the implementation of Directive 2019/633 into the Member States, emphasizing the strengths and weaknesses of the changed European and national regulatory framework. Anna Maria Mancaleoni is associate professor of Comparative Private Law at the University of Cagliari, Law Department. Her research is focused on EU private law, in general and with specific regard to the impact of EU law on consumer and contract law. Raffaele Torino is full professor of Comparative Private Law at the Roma Tre University, Department of Political Sciences. He is co-director of the ‘Rivista di diritti comparati’ and of the ‘Law and Legal Institutions’ series. His researches and studies focus on business and consumer law in a multilevel legal system framework. Università degli Studi Roma Tre Dipartimento di Giurisprudenza Nella stessa Collana 1. V. Zeno-Zenco vich (a cura di), Cosmetici. Diritto, regolazione, bio-etica , 2014 2. M. Colangelo, V. Zeno-Zencovich, Introduction to European Union transport law , I ed. 2015; II ed. 2016; III ed. 2019 3. G. Resta, V. Zeno-Zencovich (a cura di), Il diritto all’oblio su Internet dopo la sentenza Google Spain , 2015 4. V. Zeno-Zencovich, Sex and the contract (II ed .), 2015 5. G. Resta, V. Zeno-Zencovich (a cura di), La protezione transnazionale dei dati personali. Dai “safe harbour principles” al “privacy shield” , 2016 6. A. Zoppini (a cura di), Tra regolazione e giurisdizione , 2017 7. C. Giustolisi (a cura di), La direttiva consumer rights. Impianto sistematico della direttiva di armonizzazione massima , 2017 8. R. Torino (a cura di), Introduction to European Union Internal Market Law , 2017 9. M.C. Paglietti, M.I. V angelisti (a cura di), Innovazione e regole nei pagamenti digitali. Il bilanciamento degli interessi nella PSD2 , 2020 10. L. Scaffardi, V. Zeno-Zencovich (a cura di), Cibo e diritto. Una prospettiva comparata , 2020 11. A.M. Mancaleoni, E. Poillot (a cura di), National Judges and the Case Law of the Court of Justice of the European Union , 2020 12. E. Poillot, G. Lenzini, G. Resta, V. Zeno-Zencovich, Data Protection in the Context of Covid-19. A Short (Hi)Story of Tracing