124E. Bonadio, N. Lucchi, M. Contardi The agricultural and food product quality policy was developed in what is now the European Union (EU)1 with the intention of being one of the instruments of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) and helping reduce overproduction, increase farmers’ incomes and preserve rural communities 2. There is no doubt that the protection of geographical indications (GIs), primarily focused on the concept of terroir (which can be defined as an ecosystem characterised by several factors including local climatic conditions, geography and topography), is one of the most important tiles in the variegated mosaic of EU laws which promote the agrifood sector 3. The regulations of GI not only protect local producers from those who appropriate and exploit their names in the marketplace. They also contribute to the promotion of public “goods” such as the conservation of biodiversity, the protection of cultural heritage and know-how, socio-cultural development and the fight against rural poverty 4. There are currently four pieces of EU legislation on GIs addressing different categories of products, i.e. agricultural products and foodstuffs5, 1 See “The future of rural society”, Commission communication transmitted to the Council and to the European Parliament. COM (88) 501 final, 28 July 1988. Bulletin of the European Communities, Supplement 4/88. [EU Commission - COM Document]. 2 See A. di Lauro, Le Denominazioni di Origine Protette (DOP) e le Indicazioni Geografiche Protette (IGP) , in Trattato di diritto alimentare italiano e dell’Unione europea , Paolo Borghi et al. (eds), Milano, 2021, p. 431. 3 See e.g. G. Belletti-A. Marescotti, Origin Products, Geographical Indications and Rural Development , in E. Barham, B. Sylvander (eds), Labels of Origin for Food: Local Development, Global Recognition 75 (CABI 2011); A. Zappalaglio, The Transformation of EU Geographical Indications Law: The Present, Past and Future of the Origin Link , Routledge, 2021. 4 See e.g. P . Cullet, Intellectual Property Protection and Sustainable Development 333-36 (2005) (arguing how geographical indications can function as a tool for addressing tra-ditional knowledge concerns); D. Zographos, Can Geographical Indications Be a Viable Alternative for the Protection of Traditional Cultural Expressions? , in New Directions in Copyright Law 37, p. 55 (F . Macmillan & K. Bowrey, eds, 2006); T. Kono, Geographical Indication and Intangible Cultural Heritage, in B. Ubertazzi and E. Muñiz Espada (eds), Le indicazioni di qualità degli alimenti 289, 293 (2009); D. Gervais, Traditional Knowledge: Are We Closer to the Answers? The Potential Role of Geographical Indications , ILSA J. of Int. and Comp. Law 551 (2009); T. Dagne, Intellectual Property and Traditional Knowledge in the Global Economy: Translating Geographical Indications for Development (2014) (examining the role GIs can play in protecting traditional knowledge). 5 Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012 on quality schemes for agricultural products and foodstuffs, 2012 OJ (L 343). Extending the protection of geographical indications within and beyond the EU 125wines6, aromatised wines7 and spirit drinks8. The very first piece of EU GI legislation was introduced