European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012 on quality schemes for agricultural products and foodstuffs, 2012 OJ (L 343). 126E. Bonadio, N. Lucchi, M. Contardi intellectual property (IP) rights14. Therefore, geographical indications are protected in the EU not only to implement agricultural product quality policy, but also to promote intellectual property and fair competition in the relevant markets. The protection offered to PGIs and PDOs in the EU is notoriously strong. Both titles protect names of products which have qualities linked to the soil and local areas and are made according to specific methods of production (e.g “Rioja” and “Champagne” wines; “Parmigiano Reggiano” cheese; salame felino; mortadella di Bologna; Mutarde de Bougorgne; Gruyère). While PDOs guarantee that the whole manufacturing process is carried out from the beginning until the end in a specific geographical area, PGIs are granted even when just one phase of the productive process is performed in the territory in question. Because of this inextricable link between the quality and reputation of the product and the area from which it comes, the EU’s geographical indication system promotes cultural and gastronomic heritage. For some years, the possibility of protecting non-agricultural traditional products such as cutlery, leather, ceramics and glassware (e.g. Murano glass) as GI has also been discussed. Some countries have already taken legislative action and introduced GI protection for industrial products, but a common framework at EU level is still lacking in this specific area. In April 2022, the European Commission put forth a proposal for a novel regulation concerning Geographical Indications (GIs), encompassing the safeguarding of both craft and industrial products 15. It is interesting to note that what can be protected as a PDO or PGI are also GIs from countries outside the EU16. The right to register non-EU GIs 14 See Consolidated Version of the T reaty on the Functioning of the European Union art. 118, 2010 O.J. C 83/47 (stating that «In the context of the establishment and functioning of the internal market, the European Parliament and the Council, acting in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure, shall establish measures for the creation of European intellectual property rights to provide uniform protection of intel-lectual property rights throughout the Union and for the setting up of centralised Union-wide authorisation, coordination and supervision arrangements. The Council, acting in accordance with a special legislative procedure, shall by means of regulations establish language arrangements for the European intellectual property rights. The Council shall act unanimously after consulting the European Parliament»). 15 See Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on European Union geographical indications for wine, spirit drinks and agricultural prod-ucts, and quality schemes for agricultural products, amending Regulations (EU) No 1308/2013, (EU) 2017/1001 and (EU) 2019/787 and repealing Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012, COM/2022/134 final/2. 16 Article 11, para. 2, Regulation 1151/2012. Extending the protection of geographical indications within and beyond the EU 127was initially subject to the existence in the state where the GI applicant was established of