(EU) No 1308/2013, (EU) 2017/1001 and (EU) 2019/787 and repealing Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012, COM/2022/134 final/2. 16 Article 11, para. 2, Regulation 1151/2012. Extending the protection of geographical indications within and beyond the EU 127was initially subject to the existence in the state where the GI applicant was established of a kind of protection similar to the one granted by the EU. This condition triggered two disputes at the World T rade Organization (WTO), with the US and Australia challenging certain substantive and procedural requirements imposed on non-EU countries where GI applicants came from – requirements which were considered by the complainants as discriminatory. The WTO Panel partially sided with US and Australia 17. To date, seventeen non-EU countries have registered GIs through the EU GIs system, with the first African PDO being protected in 2021, i.e., Rooibos / Red Bush 18. With this in mind, the chapter is structured as follows. Section II looks at the recent case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) on the scope of GI protection, which has been considerably extended. Section III then looks at the differences between the GI protection regimes of the EU ( Old World) and several countries that were former colonies of European states, including the US, Canada, Australia and Chile ( New World ). Section IV focuses on the GI provisions of the 2018 EU-Japan Economic Partnership Agreement: this case study is a good example of 17 See EC — Protection of trademarks and GIs for agricultural products and foodstuffs (DS174 and DS290). US and Australia claimed that several aspects of the old EU Regulation 2081/92 (related to the filing, opposition and inspection procedures as well as labelling requirements) violated the TRIPS national treatment clause, and were therefore discrimi-natory. Specifically, and more importantly, it was complained that non-EU GIs could be registered in EU only provided that (a) the non-EU country the GI applied for originated from had in place a GI registration procedure similar to the one provided under the EU Regulation in question; and that (b) the non-EU country offered EU GIs a protection similar to the EU regime. As mentioned, the WTO Panel sided with US and Australia and found that the EU equivalence and reciprocity requirements offered non-EU subjects a less favourable treatment. In other words, those requirements amounted to “extra hurdles” which ended up in giving non-EU products less chances of access to the EU market. This was confirmed by the fact that until the EU regime had not been modified by eliminating the equivalence and reciprocity requirements, no GI from non-EU countries had ever been registered in the EU. The US also partially prevailed as to the aspects related to the inspec-tion procedures. As a matter of fact, under Regulation 2081/92 non-EU GIs could be registered in the EU provided that the country of origin had adopted EU-style inspection procedures. What the WTO Panel found discriminatory was the compulsory involvement of national governments of the country of origin