generis GI protection system an easy target for criticism. Most aspects of such a system are certainly to be commended, but it seems difficult to justify the extended protection recently approved by the ECJ with such an overbroad notion of “evocation” ( Queso Manchego ) and the unusual protection of characteristics of the GI product ( Morbier ). It may well be that the CJEU will take a different (and narrower) position in future disputes over the scope of GI protection. 54 See Annex 14-B List of geographical indications. 55 Art. 14.30. 56 JEPA also contains some exceptions which limit the ability of EU GI owners to use and claim exclusive rights over their signs. Yet, overall, these exceptions do not tilt the balance in favor of Japan as the EU is clearly the party which has obtained most benefits when it comes to protecting GIs. On such exceptions, and in general for a full over-view of the intellectual property aspects of JEPA see E. Bonadio-L. McDonagh-T. Sillanpaa, Intellectual property aspects of the Japan-EU economic partnership agreement (2020) 2 International Trade Law & Regulation . 138E. Bonadio, N. Lucchi, M. Contardi What is also criticised, especially in New World countries, is the EU’s ‘expansionist’ approach. We have seen that the EU is trying to export as much as possible an EU-like regime of GI protection through free trade agreements and economic partnership agreements. While in some cases the EU was not always able to impose the level of protection it wanted, in other cases most of the EU demands were accepted at the end of the negotiations: The EU-Japan agreement is an example of this latter trend. Indeed, Japan has made concessions to the EU and accepted to protect, through JEPA, more than two hundred European geographical names such as Champagne, Parmigiano and Feta (conversely, the number of Japanese geographical indications protected in the EU under this agreement is much lower) 57. It should be remembered, however, that this treaty has caused discontent in other parts of the world. For example, Australian wine producers who sold sparkling wine in Japan with the Prosecco label have lost the right to contin-ue using that brand in the Japanese market precisely because of JEPA. The latter agreement, in fact, has protected the name ‘Prosecco’ as a geographical name in Japan, the registration being owned by the Italian consortium for Prosecco wine. This is a serious blow to Australian wine producers, who will inevitably suffer losses due to the loss of sales in Japan 58. However, while the critique of the EU’s ‘expansionist’ strategy can be understood from the perspective of the New World, it appears weak when viewed through the prism of EU policy. After all, all states tend to satisfy their interests as much as possible when it comes to negotiating trade agreements. The EU was not the first and will not be the last to do so. 57 It should be noted however that Japan mostly benefits from other non-IP parts