related to the inspec-tion procedures. As a matter of fact, under Regulation 2081/92 non-EU GIs could be registered in the EU provided that the country of origin had adopted EU-style inspection procedures. What the WTO Panel found discriminatory was the compulsory involvement of national governments of the country of origin of the GI in setting up the required inspection structures: indeed, it was up to said governments to set up and approve these structures, and release non-EU applicants statement confirming that such structures had been set up in their country. As to the claims related to filing and oppositions procedures and labelling requirements, the EU prevailed on both issues. 18 On this registration see E. Bonadio-M. Contardi, Rooibos tea: EU protection is good news for South African agriculture , 29 June 2021, The Conversation . 128E. Bonadio, N. Lucchi, M. Contardi how the EU succeeds in using bilateral trade or economic partnership agreements to protect its GI -intensive industries in international markets. Section V concludes. 2. Broadening GIs’ scope of protection under EU Law The scope of GI protection under EU law is notoriously broad. It allows holders of geographical indications to prevent others from using the geo-graphical name not only in such a way as to mislead consumers as to the geographical origin and quality of the product, but also to use that name in a purely allusive manner that does not confuse consumers, for example when accompanied by expressions such as “kind”, “type”, “style”, “imitation” or the like, or when used in translations. In simpler terms, a German cheese producer could not use the expressions “Parmigiano-type” or “Parmesan-style” in connection with its products, even if consumers understand that the cheese is produced in Germany and not in the area around the Italian city of Parma. Therefore, the owners of GI have the right to prevent others from using the evocative power of their sign. In recent years, the concept of “evocation” has been interpreted quite broadly by the CJEU 19. Moreover, the Court has extended the protection of GI so that not only the sign itself, but also the characteristics of the product GI are protected. The three most recent cases in which such a broad interpretation 20 has been applied are Morbier 21, Queso Manchego22 and Champanillo 23. 19 A. Zappalaglio, EU Geographical Indications and the protection of producers and their investments. In: The Cambridge Handbook of Investment-Driven Intellectual Property , E. Bonadio, P . Goold (eds), Cambridge University Press, 2022. 20 This is not to say that the CJEU has always given a wide interpretation of GIs’ scope of protection. For example, in Comité Interprofessionnel du Vin de Champagne v Aldi Süd Dienstleistungs-GmbH & Co.OHG (C-393/16), the CJEU found that a sorbet could be marketed under the name “Champagner Sorbet” if it featured, as one of its essential characteristics, a taste that was predominantly attributable to the Champagne wine. 21 Syndicat interprofessionnel de defense du fromage Morbier v Societe Fromagere du Livradois SAS (C-490/19) EU:C:2020:1043; [2021].