of International Economic Law 575; I. Calboli, Intellectual property protection for fame, luxury, wines and spirits: Lex specialis for a corporate “dolce vita” or a “good-quality life”? , in Intellectual Property and General Legal Principles (Edward Elgar Publishing, 2015a); I. Calboli, Of markets, culture, and terroir: the unique economic and culture-related benefits of geographical indications of origin , in International Intellectual Property (Edward Elgar Publishing, 2015b); I. Calboli, Time to Say Local Cheese and Smile at Geographical Indications of Origin-International Trade and Local Development in the United States (2015c) 53 Hous. L. Rev . 373; C. Heath-D. Marie-Vivien. Geographical indications and the principles of trade mark law–A distinctly European perspective (2015) 46(7) IIC- International Review of Intellectual Property and Competition Law 819; B. O’Connor-G. De Bosio, T he global struggle between Europe and United States over geographical indications in South Korea and in the TPP economies , in The importance of place: Geographical indications as a tool for local and regional develop- ment (Springer, 2017) 47; D. Friedmann , Geographical Indications in the EU, China and Australia, WTO Case Bottling Up Over Prosecc o, (2018) European Integration and Global Power Shifts: What Lessons for Asia 18. 132E. Bonadio, N. Lucchi, M. Contardi dating back to the 1930s31. From a European perspective, this is perceived as an unfair behaviour which aims to free ride on the reputation of European food and agricultural products’ brands and heritage, and may also end up confusing consumers as to the real geographical provenance of the goods. The specific Chilean case was settled in 2002 when Chile and the EU signed a free trade agreement which provided for 12 years of coexistence after which all Chilean trademarks including the expression “champagne” would be cancelled and any generic use of the term would cease 32. This period ended in 201533. Disputes of this kind have also materialised in sectors other than wine. One of these occurred between producers of cured ham made in the area around the Italian town of Parma, and the Canadian company Maple Leaf Foods Ltd. 34, which owned trademark rights in Canada for the term “Parma” (in the EU the sign “Prosciutto di Parma”35 is protected as a PDO, and owned by the Consorzio del Prosciutto di Parma)36. The trademark registration held by Maple Leaf Foods resulted in the Italian producers 31 See F . Mekis, Simposio sobre la Protección Internacional de las Indicaciones Geográficas – Denominaciones de Origine Posición de las viás de Chile en el concierto del nuevo mundo y relación con las negociaciones con la unión Europ ea OMPI/GEO/MVD/01/4, 9 Noviembre 2001, World Intellectual Property Organisation (WIPO) (noting that at that time (2001) «[t]he word ‘champagne’ is also currently incorporated in numerous trademark-labels which constitute complex marks which they cannot be deprived of without infringing rights enshrined in our Constitution», and further arguing that when ‘Champagne’ is used alone, it would be considered as generic name under article 19 n. 23 of the Chilean constitution, but when used as part