Leeds. Magali Contardi, Post-doc Research Fellow , Sant’Anna School of Advanced Studies, Pisa. Luigi Costato, Professor Emeritus of European, Agricultural and Food Law , University of Ferrara. Catherine Del Cont, Associate Professor of Private law , University of Nantes. Antonio Jannarelli, Full Professor of Agricultural Law (Retired ), University of Bari Aldo Moro. Barbara Jelonek-Jarco, Assistant Professor of Civil Law , Jagiellonian University, Cracow. Bert Keirsbilck, Professor of European Economic Law , KU Leuven. Anikó Keller, Attorney , Budapest. Elisabeth Kraft, Phd Candidate , University of Heidelberg. Nicola Lucchi, Serra Húnter Associate Professor of Law , University Pompeu Fabra, Barcelona. Anna Maria Mancaleoni, Associate Professor of Comparative Private Law , University of Cagliari. Dominika Mróz-Krysta, Assistant Professor of Civil Law , Jagiellonian University, Cracow. Elisa Paredis, PhD Candidate , KU Leuven. Roberta Peleggi, Associate Professor of Comparative Private Law , University La Sapienza, Roma. Szymon Romanow, Assistant Professor of Civil Law , Jagiellonian University, Cracow. Luigi Russo, Full Professor of Agricultural Law , University of Ferrara. Raffaele Torino, Full Professor of Comparative Private Law , Roma T re University. Julita Zawadzka, Assistant Professor of Civil Law , Jagiellonian University, Cracow . 123Enrico Bonadio, Nicola Lucchi, Magali Contardi Extending the protection of geographical indications within and beyond the EU Summary: 1. Introduction – 2. Broadening GIs’ scope of protection under EU law – 3. Old World v New World – 4. The EU goes East: the GIs aspects of the EU-Japan Economic Partnership Agreement – 5. Conclusion. 1. Introduction Agricultural products have always had problems with coordination between the different stages of the supply chain, resulting in high transaction costs. At the same time, in the European agricultural market, rules and regulations have been increasingly relaxed. This has made business transactions very uncertain and put farmers in a difficult position between the enormous power of suppliers, processors and retailers at the other end of the chain. In response, European authorities have created new regulatory solutions to improve coordination and increase transparency along the supply chain. In this context, a better functioning food supply chain has become one of the main objectives of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP). In particular, the link between agri-food and food quality in economic development has attracted the interest of policy makers in various countries as global challenges such as sustainability and food security are reconsidered and reassessed. The critical role of food production in economic development has been highlighted through targeted agricultural quality measures to protect and promote products with distinctive characteristics associated with their geographical origin, as well as traditional products. As a result, efforts have been made to make agricultural products, which are increasingly traded on international markets, more identifiable at the national level. 124E. Bonadio, N. Lucchi, M. Contardi The agricultural and food product quality policy was developed in what is now the European Union (EU)1 with the intention of being one of the instruments of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) and helping reduce overproduction, increase farmers’ incomes and preserve rural communities 2.