the EU claw-back demands. Emblematic and eloquent was the letter sent by fifty-five US senators to the US T rade Representative in 2014, expressing their dislike of the EU requests. It included the following exhortation: «we urge you to make clear to the EU counterparts that the US will reject any proposal in the TTIP negotiations now underway that would restrict in any way the ability of US producers to use common names (eg for cheeses)» 44. The TTIP negotiations were then interrupted after T rump was elected US President, and at the date of writing 41 M. Huysmans, Exporting protection: EU trade agreements, geographical indications, and gastronationalism (2020) Review of International Political Economy 1. 42 EU-Canada Comprehensive Economic and T rade Agreement (CETA), OJ (L) 11 of 14.1.2017. For a full overview of the agreement, see: B. O’Connor, Geographical indi- cations in CETA, the comprehensive economic and trade agreement between Canada and the EU (2014) NCTM Association d’avocats, http://www.origin-gi.com/images/stories/ PDFs/English/14.11.24_GIs_in_the_ CETA_English_copy.pdf. 43 Being a mixed type treaty, that is an agreement concerning areas of shared competence between of EU Member States, it needs the ratification of individual Member States to become fully applicable. Pending ratification at national level, the agreement then enters into force for all the parts that are the exclusive competence of the EU, postponing the full application of all chapters until the national ratification process of the agreement according to domestic national law. Thus, CETA agreement (partially) entered into force provisionally. 44 F . Arfini, M.C. Mancini and M. Veneziani, Intellectual Property Rights for Geographical Indications: What is at Stake in the TTIP? (Cambridge Scholars Publishing, 2016); the Senator’s letter is available at: U.S. Senator Tammy Baldwin of Wisconsin (senate.gov). Extending the protection of geographical indications within and beyond the EU 135there is no concrete sign that they would be resumed soon. 4. The EU goes East: the GIs aspects of the EU-Japan Economic Partnership Agreement The EU has also concluded GI-protecting treaties with countries from the Far East. For example, in 2020 it signed a sectorial agreement with China on the protection of GIs 45. The trade accord concluded with Korea46 also contains an IP chapter with several important GI provisions. And so does the EU-Japan Economic Partnership Agreement (JEPA) 47. JEPA was signed on 1 July 2018 and entered into force on 1 February 2019, with Chapter 14 focusing on IP rights. JEPA should be hailed as a positive contribution to strengthening IP protection in both the EU and Japan, and therefore further promoting trade and reciprocal investments 48. JEPA’s Chapter 14 does include a section on GIs, in particular in relation to foodstuff and agricultural products as well as wines, spirits and other alcoholic beverages 49. Chapter 14 reaffirms the strong protection that the EU and Japan already have in connection with geographical names 50. In both countries registrations are granted by governments after 45 Agreement between the European Union and the Government of the People’s Republic of China on cooperation on, and