economic advantages. As a symbol of quality and reputa- tion, they facilitate trust-building between consumers and producers and stabilize market size and consumer base, embodying substantial market potential and wealth value. The specific quality and reputation attributes of GI products depend on the natural ecology and humanistic factors of their place of origin. This inherent uniqueness stemming from the close association with geographical environment confers upon GI products natural price advantages and an intrinsic monopolistic position [ 2]. Their trademark attribute conveys quality and reputation information, allowing for premium pricing and excess prof- its through brand recognition, ultimately raising agricultural operating income [ 3]. With accelerated progress in agricultural modernization, the relationship between GI products and farmers’ income has become a hot topic in agricultural development worldwide, par- ticularly for agricultural powerhouses where the path of relying on resource consumption Agriculture 2024 ,14, 798. https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture14060798 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/agriculture Agriculture 2024 ,14, 798 2 of 17 and low-cost labor is unsustainable for industrial sustainable development, necessitating new development strategies. As a new trend to enhance agricultural competitiveness, GI products are deemed an innovative and effective means to boost farmers’ income. How- ever, whether the development of GI products has increased farmers’ income remains a critical question due to its significant theoretical and practical implications for promoting farmer income growth and enhancing the market competitiveness of regional products [ 4]. Although the European Commission resolution No. 2081/92 explicitly states that GIs can promote rural economic development in remote areas and increase farmers’ incomes, nu- merous empirical studies have produced inconsistent results. There are positive correlation, negative correlation, and U-shaped relationships, to no correlation, leaving the current consensus on this issue divided [ 5]. This not only hinders product branding development but also impacts the progression of modern agriculture. Therefore, this study aims to address three main questions: firstly, does the development of GI products contribute to raising farmers’ income? Secondly, what is the strength of this relationship? Lastly, why do existing empirical studies yield inconsistent results? Under such circumstances, traditional qualitative methods for synthesizing related research can only categorize and summarize various empirical findings, still carrying many limitations. For example, qualitative research often relies on deep analysis within specific contexts and cases, focusing more on individual phenomena or the characteristics of certain groups, making it difficult to generalize these traits to larger populations. Therefore, there is an urgent need for a more objective research method to break through the current research impasse [ 6]. Existing research on the relationship between GI products and farmers’ income mainly falls into two categories: one type analyzes the theoretical mechanisms and pathways through which GIs generate economic benefits, concluding that protecting GI products can raise farmers’ earnings. The other type uses panel data or survey data to conduct empirical analyses on the relationship between GI products and farmers’ income and draws the corresponding conclusions [7]. Unlike these two types of research, meta-analysis aims to systematically synthesize and analyze numerous independent research results, seeking broadly applicable and com- prehensive