role of GI products in increasing farmer incomes [ 57]. Similarly, sample type significantly moderates the relationship between GI products and farmer incomes. Specific GI products exhibit more pronounced effects on increasing farmer incomes compared to the total GI product quantity. This is because researchers typically select specific GI products with significant characteristics and broad market potential as research objects. These products, due to their unique regional characteristics, quality assurance, and cultural connotations, are more likely to form a unique brand image in the minds of consumers, thus enjoying higher market recognition and competitiveness. This brand effect helps to enhance the added value of products, bringing higher sales income to farmers. The type of literature causes significant differences in the relationship between GI products and farmer incomes. The results show that papers published in journals are more likely to yield significant positive impact conclusions. Journals garner widespread recognition and respect due to their rigorous academic review and peer review processes. These journals tend to publish studies with distinct viewpoints and outstanding achieve- ments. Conversely, research with less significant experimental results or dissenting from mainstream academic viewpoints may face certain limitations in publication opportunities. Furthermore, the quality of journals moderates the relationship between GI products and farmer incomes. High-quality journals typically possess broader academic influence and reader bases. To maintain sustained academic influence, these journals pay more attention to the significance of statistical results and the innovation of research conclusions. Addi- tionally, publication year causes a certain degree of difference in the positive impact of GI products on farmer incomes. Unexpectedly, studies before 2015 yield higher effect values than recent ones. This is because early studies may be constrained by data availability and relatively limited research methods. Before 2015, due to limitations in data collection and analysis techniques, researchers often relied more on basic statistical methods and intuitive case analysis to explore the relationship between GI products and farmer incomes. Since other potential complex factors and variables were not comprehensively considered, these studies may more easily conclude a positive relationship between the two. Furthermore, the development of GI products has gradually matured over time, and market competition has become increasingly fierce. Compared to earlier studies, current research focuses more on complex issues such as market positioning, brand building, and industrial chain development. When exploring the relationship between GI products and farmer incomes, researchers have identified more influencing factors and variables, leading to diversified conclusions, and the positive relationship is no longer the sole or dominant viewpoint. Research methods significantly moderate the relationship between GI products and farmer incomes. The methods used to study the relationship between GI products and farmer incomes are diverse, including but not limited to multiple linear regression, difference-in-differences (DID), and analysis of variance. The results show that the positive correlation revealed by multiple linear regression methods is slightly lower compared to other analysis methods. The characteristics of multiple linear regression methods deter- mine the robustness and conservatism of their results. Due to the presence of endogeneity issues,