difference-in-differences (DID), and analysis of variance. The results show that the positive correlation revealed by multiple linear regression methods is slightly lower compared to other analysis methods. The characteristics of multiple linear regression methods deter- mine the robustness and conservatism of their results. Due to the presence of endogeneity issues, multiple linear regression may not directly or significantly demonstrate the pos- itive correlation between GI products and farmer incomes as some simpler methods do. Additionally, multiple linear regression also requires consideration of model selection and setup issues. If the model setup is unreasonable or important explanatory variables are omitted, regression results may be biased. When the impact of GI products on farmer Agriculture 2024 ,14, 798 14 of 17 incomes is interfered with by other unmodeled factors, the effect values between the two may be underestimated or concealed. Furthermore, data type significantly moderates the relationship between GI products and farmer incomes. Effect values generated from panel data samples are higher compared to cross-sectional data. In cross-sectional data, differences between different observation objects may be significant, leading to estimation biases. Panel data, by introducing a time dimension, can distinguish individual fixed effects and random effects, thereby better controlling this heterogeneity. Therefore, panel data can more comprehensively capture the dynamic changes and mutual effects between GI products and farmer incomes, thereby more accurately revealing their positive correlation. 5.2. Research Implications This study utilizes meta-analysis to conduct an in-depth investigation into the rela- tionship between GI products and farmer incomes. Overall, a highly positive correlation is found between GI products and farmer incomes, supporting hypothesis H1 and the results of most current studies. This indicates the significant role of GI products in promoting increased incomes among farmers. Furthermore, the study finds that the correlation be- tween GI products and per capita disposable income is highly positive, with the correlation coefficient exceeding that of GI products and agricultural product price increases. This result reflects consumer recognition and favoritism towards GI products, which are highly sought after due to their unique quality and regional characteristics. This increased mar- ket demand further drives the development of the GI product industry and brings more economic benefits and development opportunities for farmers. Therefore, policymakers should attach great importance to the cultivation and development of GI products. For example, special funds for GI projects can be set up to provide strong support for the research, promotion, and market expansion of GI products. It will help improve the market competitiveness of GI products and further expand their market share, bringing higher incomes to farmers. Preferential policies such as tax breaks and exemptions can also be provided to enterprises producing geographical indication products, thereby increasing the added value of geographical indication products. In addition, the government can establish a comprehensive standard system and regulatory mechanism for GI products to safeguard the quality and reputation. By organizing experts to conduct a strict review of GI products, it can prevent counterfeit and shoddy products from entering the market and safeguard consumers’ rights and