more popular, and forms a certain degree of popularity and reputation in the minds of consumers. Especially in today’s mature communication technology, information is easier to spread, and product ﬂow is conve- nient and fast. GI products have a larger potential market and it is easy to form regional brands [ 21,22]. On the other hand, GI has an “agglomeration effect”. The effective use of GI can promote the formation of scale effects and good reputation of regional characteristic industries, and form the competitive advantage of regional characteristic industries driven by the marketing effect [ 23,24]. The local factors of production are initially gathered based on the resource endowment advantages of regional characteristic industries [ 25]. Along with the growth of GI products and the expansion of market inﬂuence, these elements have been accumulated continuously and the degree of specialization has been improved. Specialized institutions for the division of work and cooperation have been gradually developed around GI. Production costs have been reduced, labor productivity has been improved, and agricultural industrial clusters have been gradually formed. Agriculture 2023 , 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW 3 of 18 cost of choice for consumers, and thus expand product demand and improve the bargain- ing power of products [16]. The demand for high -quality products generated by the im- provement of people’s living standards and the uneven quality of products makes GI, which is often regarded as a symbol of high quality, more popular, and forms a certain degree of popularity and reputation in the minds of consumers. Especially in today’s ma- ture communication technology, information is easier to spread, and product flow is con- venient and fast. G I products have a larger potential market and it is easy to form regional brands [21,22]. On the other hand, GI has an “agglomeration effect”. The effective use of GI can promote the formation of scale effects and good reputation of regional characteris- tic industries, and form the competitive advantage of region al characteristic industries driven by the marketing effect [23,24] . The local factors of production are initially gathered based on the resource endowment advantages of regional characteristic industries [25]. Along with the growth of GI products and the expansion of market influence, these ele- ments have been accumulated continuously and the degree of specialization has been im- proved. Specialized institutions for the division of work and cooperation have been grad- ually developed around GI. Production costs have been reduced, labor productivity has been improved, and agricultural industrial clusters have been gradually formed. Figure 1. GI, agricultural products export and urban–rural income gap mechanism diagram. According to international trade theory, the reason for trade between countries is the price difference. This difference is determined by production costs and production effi- ciency, which are considered to be deter mined by factors such as technology, resource endowment, supply and demand conditions in the domestic market [26]; brand a s an im- portant intangible asset is an important element of participation in domestic production. The GI