to the role of GI in reducing the urban–rural income gap and its underlying mechanisms. GI, which depends on regional resource endowments, is a unique regional intangible asset formed by coupling regional resources, environmental factors, and humanistic factors, and it is the key element in the formation of regional economic competitive advantages, as well as in promoting regional agricultural development and people’s well-being. The construc- tion of GI can help to build the quality, reputation, and market demand for agricultural products, and then promote export of agricultural products [ 16,17], which can, through the transformation of labor demand and the promotion of employment [ 18], have an important impact on the urban–rural income gap. So, it is of great theoretical signiﬁcance to consider GI, agricultural product, export and the urban–rural income gap. This not only helps to further expand the research on GI and rural economic development, but also further validates the scope of application of the existing research conclusions by taking China, a large agricultural country, as the research area. Based on the statistical data of 31 provinces in China from 2008 to 2019, this empirical study uses the spatial Durbin model (SDM) to analyze the relationship between GI and urban–rural income gap. The contribution of this paper is that, ﬁrstly, we construct a uniﬁed analytical framework to explain the mechanism of the impact of geographical indications on the urban–rural income gap; secondly, we test the positive impact of geographical indications on reducing the urban–rural income gap by promoting agricultural product export, and explore policy recommendations. The rest of this paper is divided into four parts, namely, mechanism analysis and research hypothesis, research design, result analysis, and conclusions and recommendations. 2. Mechanism Analysis and Research Hypothesis The agricultural food sector is gradually participating in the process of internation- alization. Although it may encounter difﬁculties to compete and organize activities in an uncertain and complex environment, internationalization has become an important factor in improving the competitiveness of enterprises and regions [ 19]. It has an important impact on the performance of enterprises and the development of rural areas [ 20]. There are two main mechanisms for GI to promote the export of agricultural products (Figure 1). On the one hand, GI has a “marketing effect”. As an important signal and reputation mechanism, GI can connect products, producing areas and consumption to reduce the cost of choice for consumers, and thus expand product demand and improve the bargaining power of products [16]. The demand for high-quality products generated by the improve- ment of people’s living standards and the uneven quality of products makes GI, which Agriculture 2023 ,13, 378 3 of 16 is often regarded as a symbol of high quality, more popular, and forms a certain degree of popularity and reputation in the minds of consumers. Especially in today’s mature communication technology, information is easier to spread, and product ﬂow is conve- nient and fast. GI products have a larger potential market and it is easy to form regional brands