36]. What is more, rural education resources are relatively scarce in comparison to urban areas in China. Increasing the gap in education levels may further widen the urban–rural income gap. Therefore, this paper uses the ratio of ﬁnancial expenditure on education by provinces to general budget expenditure by provinces as a proxy variable for the education expenditure level. Industrial structure upgrading ( logind ): Industrial structure upgrading is conducive to the ﬂow of labor factors between industries, and the difference of labor remuneration in different production sectors can prompt the ﬂow of rural labor to secondary and tertiary industries, thus raising the income level of farmers [ 37]. On the other hand, the transforma- tion and upgrading of industrial structures is conducive to promoting the development of agriculture in a more efﬁcient direction, promoting the modernization of agriculture and raising the income level of farmers, which can help to narrow the income gap between urban and rural areas. Therefore, the proportion of the output value of the tertiary industry to the output value of the secondary industry is chosen to measure industrial structure upgrading in this paper. Population density ( logpeople ): The population density of a region reﬂects the intensity of its economic activities [ 38]. After the reform and opening up, many rural surplus laborers have entered the cities to engage in socio-economic activities with the main purpose of earning a living. Due to the positive externalities of knowledge and skills in labor intensive areas, the low-skilled labor force, especially the rural surplus labor force, have more learning opportunities and are able to raise their incomes, thereby reducing the urban–rural income gap. Therefore, the ratio of land area to year-end resident population is chosen to measure population density in each province. Aging level ( logold ): On the one hand, social security expenditure in China tends to be urbanized and the transfer income of urban residents is higher than that of rural residents [ 36]. So, the income of the urban elderly population is higher compared to the rural elderly group, which exacerbates the urban–rural income gap. On the other hand, as most of the urban population are engaged in high-skilled jobs, there may be a positive increase in age and wages, while most of the rural labor force is engaged in low-skilled jobs, facing a decline in income with age, so aging will increase the urban–rural income gap. Therefore, the ratio of the elderly population to the working-age population is chosen to measure the level of aging level in each province. Agriculture 2023 ,13, 378 7 of 16 3.3. Descriptive Statistics This paper uses statistical data from 2008–2019 for 31 provinces, and the results of descriptive statistics and collinearity tests for each variable are conducted before the regressions. Generally speaking, taking logarithms of the data will not change the nature and relationship of the data, and it is easy to eliminate the heteroskedasticity problem of the data, so the logarithmic processing of each variable is carried out.