the urban–rural income gap. The protection of GI has always belonged to a state that can be strict or lax. If we want to promote the positive role of GI in narrowing the urban–rural gap, we must establish a clearer protection law at the overall level of China. In addition to stricter legal protection, the government needs to develop a comprehensive management system. A few years ago, “Xiaoyao Town” and “Tongguan Rougamo” were ordered by the State Intellectual Property Ofﬁce to stop charging franchise fees. There has always been a phenomenon that local associations or relevant institutions use GI to collect “protection fees”. This chaotic market state is not conducive to the benign development of GI, which may damage the reputation of GI and create a crisis in which a few people beneﬁt and most people are poor. (2)In the process of opening up to the outside world, more actively “marketing” GI products can enhance the popularity of GI, reduce the distance to foreign consumers, and promote the level of export trade of GI products. Many tangible products and intangible qualities have become “trappings” of China’s opening-up process, and China has increased the exposure of these products in intercountry exchanges. For example, China’s high-speed railways have gone global in the Belt and Road, and have been well received. If we can take GI products as the finishing touch in the process of national diplomacy or opening up, it will certainly increase the attention of foreign consumers. It helps to form a positive impression, improve the psychological distance between products and consumers, and promote the level of export trade of GI products, which in turn will drive the economic development of the relevant regions and narrow the income gap between urban and rural areas. (3) Actively promote the international mutual recognition and protection of GI. GI products have good cost advantages and production efﬁciency advantages that shape the competitive advantages of GI products. It can help GI products to compete in a larger market and gain revenue through agricultural trade, helping farmers to increase production and income, and reducing the income gap between urban and rural areas. However, the prerequisite for such trade is that GI products are recognized by the international market, and international mutual recognition and protection is the guarantee for GI products to go abroad. Therefore, in the process of GI protection and application, we should actively promote international mutual recognition and protection, implement orderly agreements related to GI intellectual property rights, create the institutional advantage of “blood-making” rural revitalization by protecting GI property rights, and transform the institutional advantage into brand advantage, industrial advantage, and regional economic development advantage. Agriculture 2023 ,13, 378 14 of 16 5.3. Limitations and Future Research Similar to all empirical studies, this research has certain limitations. Although this paper discusses the role of GI in increasing farmers’ income and narrowing the urban–rural income gap in more detail, the sample data are mainly at the provincial level, which may lead to the omission