and Its Subdimensions Endogenous growth theory underscores the central role of knowledge and technology in economic growth [ 11]. On one hand, GI, as a form of intellectual property, represents the uniqueness and quality guarantee of products from a specific region, contributing to enhancing the brand value and market recognition of products, promoting product branding and knowledge-based transformation [ 12]. This brand value enhancement can result in premium effects, enabling farmers to fetch higher returns during sales [ 13]. On the other hand, the agricultural industry chain spans from production to processing, sales, and beyond. The promotion and utilization of GIs can optimize the structure and function of the agricultural industry chain, facilitating further processing and refining of products and thereby increasing product added-value and market competitiveness. By participating in the high-value-added segments of the industry chain, farmers can share more in the value-added gains, resulting in income growth [14]. Numerous empirical studies support the positive influence of GI products on farmers’ income, arguing that GI products, predominantly agricultural products, benefit from the high dependence of agricultural production on natural resources and the influence of geo- graphical location and resource endowments. The collective rights attribute and regional exclusivity of GI products imply that producers in these areas can exclude others, thereby gaining corresponding economic benefits. This necessitates fair distribution of benefits among GI producers and their groups. Through agricultural production, comparative advantages in natural resources directly translate into farmers’ income [15]. Generally, GI products are often associated with specific regions and production methods. Farmers can enhance product quality by adopting more advanced agricultural techniques, stricter pro- duction standards, and quality control measures, thereby increasing consumer recognition and willingness to purchase [ 16]. This brings additional economic value to the products, which may stimulate producers to improve product quality and expand production scale. The successful promotion and sale of GI products help increase product prices and per capita disposable income, ultimately assisting farmers in obtaining higher profits from selling GI products [17]. On the one hand, with the market promotion of GI products and the improvement of consumer awareness, product market share and sales channels can be expanded, thereby increasing sales volume. By expanding online and offline sales channels, farmers can sell products to a wider range of regions and consumer groups, achieving growth in sales revenue [ 18]. In addition, through training and education, farmers can improve production skills and market awareness, better participating in the production and sales of GI products. This can not only improve product quality and competitiveness but also create more employment opportunities and income sources in rural areas, attract more labor force participation, improve the employment stability of rural residents, and increase their per capita disposable income [ 19]. On the other hand, the theory of product differentiation emphasizes the existence of non-complete substitutability among various products. GI products, with their unique regional characteristics and quality assurance, possess differentiated characteristics distinct from other products [ 20]. This uniqueness enables them to stand out among many