other type uses panel data or survey data to conduct empirical analyses on the relationship between GI products and farmers’ income and draws the corresponding conclusions [7]. Unlike these two types of research, meta-analysis aims to systematically synthesize and analyze numerous independent research results, seeking broadly applicable and com- prehensive conclusions [ 8]. As a rigorous quantitative analytical method, meta-analysis serves to reanalyze previous research findings, particularly demonstrating significant ap- plication value in resolving issues with conflicting research conclusions [ 9]. In dealing with a multitude of empirical research results, where differing methodologies and samples lead to divergent conclusions, meta-analysis functions as a tool for systematically organizing and analyzing large quantities of quantitative literature. It treats each independent study’s findings as statistical samples, and through in-depth analysis of these various samples, meta-analysis can objectively and comprehensively reveal the characteristics of similar empirical research outcomes [10]. The marginal innovation of this study compared to previous research includes: first, unlike previous studies that focus solely on the impact of GI product development on farmers’ income, this study scientifically explores the controversy regarding the relation- ship between GI products and farmers’ income using meta-analysis to synthesize and re-statistically analyze empirical research findings, thereby providing a more authentic depiction of their relationship. This not only supplies scientific evidence to current research but also enriches the content and methodology in the field of GI studies. Second, this study focuses on the strength of the relationship between GI products and farmers’ income, conducting a more systematic and comprehensive analysis based on observations from different global backgrounds, offering quantitative support for boosting farmers’ income. Third, no prior research has addressed the fundamental reasons behind the discrepancies in the relationship between GI product development and farmers’ income. This study identifies potential moderating variables from the sample, literature, and methodological levels that could lead to varying research conclusions, delving into the specific contexts under which GI products affect farmers’ income differently. Against the macro backdrop of countries vigorously developing GI products to improve agricultural competitiveness, this Agriculture 2024 ,14, 798 3 of 17 study’s findings will hold significant implications for formulating reasonable GI protection policies and fostering new momentum for agricultural sustainable development in vari- ous countries and regions. Moreover, they can provide effective theoretical support and decision-making references for optimizing agricultural resource allocation and enhancing agricultural competitiveness. The specific research approach is as follows: firstly, develop research hypotheses and an analysis framework through a literature review. Secondly, strictly adhere to the steps of meta-analysis to screen literature, calculate effect sizes, and explore heterogeneity. Thirdly, analyze the research results. Finally, present the results and discussions. 2. Theoretical Background and Research Hypotheses 2.1. Impact of GI Products on Farmers’ Income and Its Subdimensions Endogenous growth theory underscores the central role of knowledge and technology in economic growth [ 11]. On one hand, GI, as a form of intellectual property, represents the uniqueness and quality guarantee of products from a specific region, contributing to enhancing the brand value and market recognition