products. In addition, the government can establish a comprehensive standard system and regulatory mechanism for GI products to safeguard the quality and reputation. By organizing experts to conduct a strict review of GI products, it can prevent counterfeit and shoddy products from entering the market and safeguard consumers’ rights and interests. Production entities should increase their efforts to cultivate and develop GI products with a view to realizing sustainable agricultural development. GI products are usually closely related to the local natural environment and resource endowment. The development process needs to follow green, low-carbon, and sustainable principles. Therefore, the development of GI products allows for better protection and utilization of agricultural resources and realizes the green and sustainable development of agriculture. The high value and market demand of GI products can stimulate the enthusiasm of farmers in planting and breeding, further optimizing the structure of agricultural industry. The development of GI products acts as a chain, closely connecting all related industries. It contributes to the diversified development of the rural economy and improves the overall economic development of the countryside. With the development of the GI industry, more and more employment opportunities arise. Such a development trend can attract the return of rural laborers and reduce the loss of rural population, thus promoting the stability and prosperity of rural society. 5.3. Limitations This study aims to deeply explore the impact of GI products on farmer incomes, complementing the shortcomings of meta-analysis in explaining the logical relationship between variables by introducing endogenous growth theory. Additionally, the study contrasts the different impacts of GI products on various aspects of farmer incomes and conducts a thorough analysis of their underlying logical differences. To further ensure the Agriculture 2024 ,14, 798 15 of 17 comprehensiveness and accuracy of the study, the research conducts subgroup analysis tests on relevant moderating variables from three levels: samples, literature, and method- ology, to construct a more complete and rigorous research framework. The limitations of this paper are mainly as follows: firstly, although this study collects literature from various public databases to conduct a meta-analysis, some literature does not report basic descriptive statistics and correlation coefficients. This resulted in the inability to include it in the meta-analysis and the loss of some samples. Secondly, due to the limitations of meta-analysis methods, this study only analyzes the linear relationship between GI products and farmer incomes. In the future study, the following directions can be tried. Firstly, the study of globalization and localization of GI products and research on how GI products maintain their uniqueness and regional features in the context of globalization, while exploring how to integrate them into the global market. Secondly, study on the protection of intellectual property rights of GI products and examining the laws and regula- tions as well as the practical experience of various countries in the protection of intellectual property rights of GI products and putting forward suggestions for improving the intellec- tual property protection system. Thirdly, study on the connection between geographical indication products