agricultural products export on the GI and the urban–rural income gap is also veriﬁed, and agricultural product export plays a partially mediating role. Hypothesis 2 is again tested. 5. Conclusions and Recommendations 5.1. Conclusions In the context of China’s vigorous promotion of the rural revitalization strategy, it is important to seek multiple and high-quality development paths. As an important intangible asset, GI is deeply involved in regional economic production. Many studies have demonstrated the effect of GI on agricultural products in promoting distinctive and high-quality development of agricultural industries, but less attention has been paid to the effect of GI in driving down the urban–rural income gap and its realization path. Based on panel data from 2008–2019 for 31 provinces in China, this paper explores the relationship between GI and urban–rural income gap, and the mediating effect of agricultural product export through the spatial econometric model SDM. The main ﬁndings of the study are as follows. Firstly, 2008–2019 data show that GI can narrow the urban–rural income gap. The pro-agricultural qualities of GI have become the focus of narrowing the urban–rural gap in today’s rural revitalization. The application of GI in rural areas can form new growth points and receive more support, thus narrowing the urban–rural income gap. Secondly, Agriculture 2023 ,13, 378 13 of 16 data from 2008–2019 show that an increase in the number of GIs can signiﬁcantly boost agricultural products export. The marketing effect of GI can more easily establish the visibility and reputation of GI products. At the same time, GI has unique competitive advantages that are difﬁcult to replicate, and its agglomeration effect has gained more support and attention from the government and foreign capital, which promotes the strong ability of GI branding. The branding of GI can form a stronger competitive advantage in foreign trade and promote the improvement of the agricultural product export trade. Thirdly, 2008–2019 data show that GI can narrow the urban–rural income gap through agricultural product export. GI branding can easily form a scale effect, employment effect, and price effect in the agricultural products export, which can promote employment level, agricultural production efﬁciency, and price advantage of agricultural products, thus raising farmers’ income and narrowing the urban–rural income gap. 5.2. Recommendations The characteristics of GI are already destined to become an important factor in the process of rural revitalization in China. How it can play a role in raising farmers’ incomes and narrowing the urban–rural income gap is an issue that cannot be ignored, especially in the process of globalization. Based on the above research, the main recommendations of the study are as follows. (1) Strengthen the management and protection of GI, and effectively enhance the role of GI in the urban–rural income gap. The protection of GI has always belonged to a state that can be strict or lax. If we want to promote the positive role of GI in narrowing the urban–rural gap, we must establish a clearer protection law at the overall level of China. In addition