on education by provinces to general budget expenditure by provinces% + Industrial structure upgrading (logind )The ratio of the output value of the tertiary industry to the output value of the secondary industry% - Population density ( logpeople )The ratio of land area to year-end resident populationHundred hectares - Aging level ( logold )The ratio of the elderly population to the working-age population% + 3.2.1. Explanatory Variable Urban–rural income gap ( loggap ). There are four main proxy indicators of the urban– rural income gap in the existing literature, namely, the ratio of disposable income of urban residents to the net income of rural residents, the ratio of per capita consumption expenditure of urban residents and rural residents, the Thayer index, and the Gini index. [ 34,35]. The Thiel index not only takes into account the influence of disposable income, but also the demographic structure, which can give a more comprehensive consideration of the urban– rural income gap. So, this paper chooses the Thiel index as a proxy variable. The lower the index, the smaller the urban–rural income gap. 3.2.2. Key Explanatory Variable Geographical Indication ( loggi ). There are different practice models for the protec- tion system of GI. In China, the former General Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection, and Quarantine (AQSIQ), the former Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), and the Trademark Ofﬁce under the former State Administration for Industry and Commerce (SAIC) administer GI of origin, GI of agricultural products, and GI trademarks, respectively, and the number of GI trademarks are used in this article to measure GI. Agriculture 2023 ,13, 378 6 of 16 3.2.3. Mediating Variable Agricultural product export ( logtrade ). The indicator for agricultural product export is measured by the value of agricultural product export, obtained from the Ministry Of Commerce of China. Since the original data are all in thousands of dollars, in this paper, the annual average exchange rate is used to convert the agricultural product export (thousands of dollars) into a comparable proxy variable for agricultural product export. 3.2.4. Control Variables Education expenditure level ( logedu ): The impact of education investment on the level of human capital has changed the employment situation [ 36]. A highly educated workforce tends to be able to perform jobs with high incomes that are not easily replaced, while a less educated workforce can only perform simple labor that is easily replaced and has a lower level of income. However, due to the lack of social security, low family income, and the lack of the concept of poverty alleviation through education, the residents in rural areas spend less on their children’s education, which, to some extent, restricts the accumulation of human capital in rural areas [ 36]. What is more, rural education resources are relatively scarce in comparison to urban areas in China. Increasing the gap in education levels may further widen the urban–rural income gap. Therefore, this paper uses the ratio of ﬁnancial expenditure on education by provinces to general budget expenditure by provinces as