disposable income [ 19]. On the other hand, the theory of product differentiation emphasizes the existence of non-complete substitutability among various products. GI products, with their unique regional characteristics and quality assurance, possess differentiated characteristics distinct from other products [ 20]. This uniqueness enables them to stand out among many similar products, meeting consumers’ pursuit Agriculture 2024 ,14, 798 4 of 17 of distinctive and high-quality products. As a special brand resource, it helps enhance product awareness and reputation. Through brand building and management, their unique geographical and production conditions give these products comparative advantages in certain aspects [ 21]. Consumers generally believe that these products undergo rigorous production and quality control, thus possessing higher quality and better taste [ 22]. This trust and loyalty can translate into higher product prices because consumers are willing to pay more for high-quality products [ 23]. Therefore, the prices of GI products often include a premium for cultural and emotional value. Therefore, this study proposes the following hypotheses: H1: The development of GI products can effectively promote farmers’ income growth. H1a: The development of GI products can effectively promote per capita disposable income growth. H1b: The development of GI products can effectively promote agricultural product prices. Based on the theoretical analysis and research hypotheses above, the basic framework of this study is derived, as shown in Figure 1. Figure 1. Meta-analysis diagram of the relationship between geographical indication products and farmers’ incomes. 2.2. Moderating Factors Influencing the Relationship between GI Products and Farmer Incomes 2.2.1. Sources of Sample-Level Differences Different countries of sample origin: countries worldwide are actively leveraging the advantages of GI products to promote industrial development, enhance product quality and reputation, and strengthen national competitiveness. However, the characteristics of GI product development vary among countries due to their unique national contexts [ 24]. Many countries with a long history of GI product development, such as France and Italy, not only represent local culture and tradition but also serve as important brands in the international market. Compared to these countries, the Chinese government started pro- tecting GI products relatively late but has rapidly accelerated their development [ 25]. As of now, China has over 10,075 registered GI products, far surpassing other countries. This Agriculture 2024 ,14, 798 5 of 17 achievement is attributed to the Chinese government’s high attention and policy support for GI product development. For instance, the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, in conjunction with the Ministry of Finance and other departments, has implemented a GI agricultural product protection project, providing financial support to promote the pro- tection and development of GI products [26]. The continuity and stability of such policies provide strong guarantees for the development of GI products. However, Joosse (2021) found through spatial modeling analysis that GI did not bring price advantages to products in less developed areas and did not contribute to farmer income growth [ 27]. Conversely, Xiao (2021) found through panel data analysis of GI registration quantity in China that GI products have