products. However, Joosse (2021) found through spatial modeling analysis that GI did not bring price advantages to products in less developed areas and did not contribute to farmer income growth [ 27]. Conversely, Xiao (2021) found through panel data analysis of GI registration quantity in China that GI products have a strong positive effect on regional agricultural economic development and farmer income [ 28]. Therefore, differences in the development of GI products among countries may affect the relationship between GI products and farmer incomes. Differences in the regional scope and sample type of the study: studies conducted at the national level provide more extensive and universal results, while regional-level studies are essential for investigating regional issues [ 29]. Differences in resource endowments and policy space between national and regional studies directly influence the results of the relationship between GI products and farmer incomes. Schober’s survey of 150 respondents at the regional level found that GI products are increasingly favored by consumers due to their unique regional characteristics, excellent quality, and profound cultural heritage, leading to enhanced competitiveness in the market [ 30]. Conversely, Sorgho’s analysis using a national sample found that GI did not confer higher value to products in international trade and did not affect farmer incomes. Therefore, differences in the regional scope of the study sample may influence the relationship between GI products and farmer incomes [ 31]. Additionally, there is variation in scholars’ research approaches: some scholars use the total quantity of GI products in a country or region as the sample, while others use specific products as the sample. Depending on the type of product analyzed, research results on the relationship between GI products and farmer incomes may vary. For example, Vakoufaris (2022) found that Italian high-quality wines protected by GI could command higher market prices [ 32]. GI protection encourages farmers and producers to adhere to traditional brewing methods and maintain product uniqueness and high quality, and also provides them with more market opportunities and economic benefits. This has positive implications for maintaining regional ecological balance and increasing farmer incomes [ 33]. Conversely, Zhang ‘s model, based on analysis using the total quantity of GI products, found that although GI products have certain advantages, the market is crowded with similar products, leading to fierce competition. If farmers fail to seize market opportunities and improve product quality and competitiveness, the advantages of GI products may be weakened, thereby affecting farmer incomes [34]. 2.2.2. Sources of Differences in Literature-Level Relationships Differences in journal types: this study includes both journal articles and dissertations. Journal articles typically undergo rigorous peer review to ensure quality and academic value, but they often have strict length limitations, which may hinder the comprehensive presentation of the research process and results. Additionally, the authors of journal articles are more diverse, including university faculty and students, as well as participants in social practice activities, collectively promoting academic research and social development [ 35]. Dissertations, on the other hand, are authored by graduate students under the