Limitations and Future Research Similar to all empirical studies, this research has certain limitations. Although this paper discusses the role of GI in increasing farmers’ income and narrowing the urban–rural income gap in more detail, the sample data are mainly at the provincial level, which may lead to the omission of some more detailed information. If we consider multi-level samples and various methods, we may reveal more internal logic and put forward more constructive suggestions for rural development. Therefore, in the future, we can explore from more levels and methods, such as using county-level data or individual questionnaire data for analysis, or using a case study method to improve the role of GI in rural development in the reduction of the urban–rural income gap. Author Contributions: Conceptualization, S.Z., Y.S. and X.Y.; methodology, S.Z. and Y.S.; software, S.Z.; validation, S.Z., Y.S. and Y.Z.; formal analysis, S.Z. and Y.S.; data curation, S.Z. and Y.S.; writing— original draft preparation, S.Z.; writing—review and editing, Y.S. and Y.Z.; visualization, S.Z., Y.S. and X.Y.; supervision, Y.S.; project administration, Y.S.; funding acquisition, Y.S. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript. Funding: This research was funded by the National Natural Science Foundation of China, grant number 41971164, the National Social Science Funds of China, grant number 22&ZD192. Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable. Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable. Data Availability Statement: Not applicable. Acknowledgments: All authors thank the anonymous reviewers and the editor for their constructive comments on an earlier version of the manuscript. Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest. Appendix A Table A1. The agricultural product classes. Number Class Number Class 1 Live animals 15 Vegetable plaiting materials 2 Animal meat and meat offal 16Animal or vegetable fat oils and their cleavage products 3 Poultry meat and meat offal 17 Preparations of meat 4 Aquatic and marine products 18 Preparations of aquatic products 5Dairy produce, birds’ eggs, natural honey and edible products of animal origin, not elsewhere speciﬁed or included19 Sugars and sugar confectionery 6Products of animal origin, not elsewhere speciﬁed or included20 Cocoa and its products 7 Live trees and other plants, and ﬂowers 21Preparations of cereals, grain ﬂour, starch, pastrycooks’ products 8 Edible vegetables 22Preparations of vegetables, fruit, nuts, and other products 9 Edible fruit and nuts 23 Miscellaneous food 10 Coffee, tea, mate, and spices 24 Beverages, spirits, and vinegar 11 Cereals 25Residues and waste from the food industries, prepared animal fodder 12 Products of the milling industry 26 Tobacco and its products 13Oilseeds, industrial or medicinal plants, thatch, straw, and feed27 Other agricultural products 14 Vegetable saps and extracts Agriculture 2023 ,13, 378 15 of 16 References 1. Lee, D.; Moon, J.; Ryu, M.H. The effects of extrinsic cues on online sales of fresh produce: A focus on geographical indications. Cah. Agric. 2019 ,28, 13. [CrossRef] 2. Vecchio, Y.; Iddrisu, A.L.; Adinolﬁ, F.; De Rosa, M. Geographical Indication to Build up Resilient Rural Economies: A Case Study from Ghana. Sustainability 2020 ,12, 2052.