determined by production costs and production effi- ciency, which are considered to be deter mined by factors such as technology, resource endowment, supply and demand conditions in the domestic market [26]; brand a s an im- portant intangible asset is an important element of participation in domestic production. The GI brand is a special brand asset accumulated under the conditions of regional char- acteristic agricultural resource endowment or institutional culture, and its “marketing ef- fect” and “agglomeration effect” effectively promote lower production costs and higher production efficiency, thereby facilitating the formation of sustainable competitive ad- vantages for regional agricultural industries [27,28] . Many studies have demonstrated that GI can promote agricultural exports. Agostino and Trivi eri used data from France, Italy, and Spain to investigate whether the designation of the production area has a positive pay-off in terms of greater export values, volumes and presence in different export mar- kets, and found that quality wines produced in s pecified regions (QWPSR) are associated with higher export values [17]. Xu et al. based their research on the provincial panel data to examine the impact of GI certification on the technical co mplexity of China’s export agricultural products. The result shows that GI certification can significantly improve the technical complexity of export agricultural products and the positive spillover effect of GI on the export of agricultural products is st rengthened as the level of the technical com- plexity of products increases [16]. Therefore, building GI with a strong brand effect can Figure 1. GI, agricultural products export and urban–rural income gap mechanism diagram. According to international trade theory, the reason for trade between countries is the price difference. This difference is determined by production costs and production efﬁciency, which are considered to be determined by factors such as technology, resource endowment, supply and demand conditions in the domestic market [ 26]; brand as an important intangible asset is an important element of participation in domestic produc- tion. The GI brand is a special brand asset accumulated under the conditions of regional characteristic agricultural resource endowment or institutional culture, and its “marketing effect” and “agglomeration effect” effectively promote lower production costs and higher production efﬁciency, thereby facilitating the formation of sustainable competitive advan- tages for regional agricultural industries [ 27,28]. Many studies have demonstrated that GI can promote agricultural exports. Agostino and Trivieri used data from France, Italy, and Spain to investigate whether the designation of the production area has a positive pay-off in terms of greater export values, volumes and presence in different export markets, and found that quality wines produced in speciﬁed regions (QWPSR) are associated with higher export values [ 17]. Xu et al. based their research on the provincial panel data to examine the impact of GI certiﬁcation on the technical complexity of China’s export agricultural products. The result shows that GI certiﬁcation can signiﬁcantly improve the technical complexity of export agricultural products and the positive spillover effect of GI on the export of agricultural products is strengthened as