prices, thereby contributing to increased farmer incomes [ 43]. Conversely, Chaney (2008) found through the use of a random forest model and panel data analysis that although some GI products have excellent quality, consumer demand for them is limited. This limits the expansion of these products’ market share, making it difficult to promote farmer income growth [ 44]. Therefore, differences in research methods may influence the relationship between GI products and farmer incomes. On the other hand, there are different types of data: existing literature involves mainly panel data and cross-sectional data. Panel data contain multiple time observations of the same individual, providing more data points for estimating complex behavioral equations, enabling researchers to capture changes over time. Cross-sectional data describe the characteristics of individuals or groups at a specific point in time, such as population structure and socioeconomic status [ 45]. Differences in data types in existing studies may lead to biases in research results. Qie (2023) analyzed county-level panel data from 2006 to 2020 and found that the promotion of agricultural economy by GI products is influenced by regional economic development, resulting in differences between the eastern and western regions [46]. To explore the impact of the above factors on the relationship between GI products and farmer incomes, this study posits: H2: Differences in sample level, literature level, and method level will moderate the relationship between GI products and farmer incomes. 3. Methodology This study systematically reviews the literature on the relationship between geograph- ical indications and farmer incomes using the meta-analysis research technique proposed by Glass in 1976 [ 47]. The advantages of this method lie in providing comprehensive final results based on the study outcomes, offering information on the magnitude of effects, and strict data selection requirements, ensuring scientific and accurate results. Specifically, this study utilizes STATA 17 software to examine the effects of geographical indications and Agriculture 2024 ,14, 798 7 of 17 their dimensions on farmer incomes. Additionally, this study investigates the moderating effects of different factors on the relationship between geographical indications and farmer incomes from the sample level, literature level, and method level [ 48]. The research design is outlined in Figure 2. Figure 2. Flowchart of meta-analysis of the relationship between geographical indication products and farmers’ incomes. 3.1. Literature Retrieval and Screening This study comprehensively searched Chinese and English literature until February 2024. Chinese literature was retrieved from databases such as CNKI, Wanfang, and VIP journals, while English literature was retrieved from databases such as Web of Science, ScienceDirect, Springer, and ProQuest, using relevant terms such as “geographical indica- tion”, “geographical indication protection”, “geographical indication product”, “farmer income”, “rural economy”, “poverty alleviation”, “wealth creation”, and “employment”. The preliminary literature search provided a sufficiently broad range of data documents. Furthermore, to avoid omissions, this study supplemented the search with relevant reviews and meta-analyses for additional references. Through these steps, a total of 7889 initial literature records were obtained. Combining the requirements of the meta-analysis method and the research topic, two independent screeners