panel data to examine the impact of GI certiﬁcation on the technical complexity of China’s export agricultural products. The result shows that GI certiﬁcation can signiﬁcantly improve the technical complexity of export agricultural products and the positive spillover effect of GI on the export of agricultural products is strengthened as the level of the technical complexity of products increases [ 16]. Therefore, building GI with a strong brand effect can gain more recognition in the world, enhance the advantages of domestic product trade, and promote agricultural exports. Based on this, this paper proposes hypothesis 1. Agriculture 2023 ,13, 378 4 of 16 Hypothesis 1. GI can signiﬁcantly promote agricultural product export . The issue of the urban–rural income gap has long been a concern for policymakers and scholars, and some studies proved that the urban–rural income gap contributes to 40%–60% of the overall income gap in China [29]. It is generally believed that the transfer of rural labor and the acquisition of credit are conducive to the reduction of the urban– rural income gap [ 30,31] and it is clear that the key to reducing the urban–rural income gap is to raise the income of rural residents. Agricultural products export can increase farmers’ income, thus helping to narrow the urban–rural income gap. On the one hand, the export of agricultural products is an important channel to expand the demand market, which can promote the transformation of the labor surplus of rural residents. In particular, high-quality agricultural products have higher added value and higher consumer loyalty and can expand the effective foreign market demand. On the other hand, the demand created by the export of agricultural products will lead to an increase in supply, thus driving employment and investment in the export sector [ 32]. This can help to raise their labor income [18], thus helping to narrow the urban–rural income gap. GI branding can narrow the income gap between urban and rural areas. Firstly, the branding of GI can signiﬁcantly increase the sales of GI agricultural products and attract the concentration of production factors, helping to form economies of scale. The formation of a scale economy can reduce production costs and improve production efﬁciency [ 33], which can increase farmers’ income. Secondly, the branding of GI enhances the image of GI products and can signiﬁcantly expand consumer demand for GI products. The change in supply and demand for GI agricultural products can lead to an increase in price, and the sales income of agricultural products, as an important source of income for farmers, will increase due to the increase in the price of GI products [ 15], thus helping to reduce the urban–rural income gap. Finally, GI agricultural products that can meet the market demand will have more competitive advantages, which can attract more agricultural labor. This helps to change the employment structure and expand the scale of employment, thus increasing the income of farm households and reducing the urban–rural income gap. Based on this, this paper proposes hypothesis 2.