as offi cially accepting that a product of a given quality, reputation and charac- teristics exists under the GI-name, as to prevent third parties from using it for diff erent products that do not comply with the specifi cations. As a consequence of applying the priority principle for GIs in the case of confl icting claims over identi- cal GIs for identical or similar products, one of the States shall change its GI-term, since the illegiti- mate one’s recognition granted by an international system as the Lisbon Agreement or by a bilateral or plurilateral agreement might be declared null or should not be recognized. Is changing the GI-term as bad as it sounds for the country that loses its “right” over it? Experience has shown that it is not. Rather than a punishment, it should be seen as an opportunity. For example, after signing the bilateral agreement with the EU in 1994, Australia stopped using the French GIs Burgundy or Chablis to describe its wines. Th en, the country started to rely on its own regional names, like Coonawarra and Barossa; and to stress grape varieties like Chardonnay and Shiraz. Th is is how Australia built the world’s most dynamic wine industry (Calboli 2006, p. 201). Th is boom is an example of how the renouncement to use illegiti- mately a GI might be an opportunity, as well as an example to show that the benefi t of GIs “would not be limited to ‘Old World’ countries, but, at least in the long-term, could eventually be shared by all TRIPs Members” (Calboli, 2006, p. 200). Indeed, even though the protection of IP rights mostly benefi ts wealthy states, also developing countries are keen to establish protection for their goods to foster development (Bowen, 2010). 2.2.2. The recognition of homonymous GIs in trade agreements IP rights are considered non-tariff trade barriers (Gervais, 2012), as an exception to the principle of free movement of goods of the GATT Agree- ment. Indeed, Moran (1993) accurately predicted that IP rights, as a form of non-tariff trade restric- tions, would become an important infl uence on trade fl ows and a growing distinction among rural products. Consequently, the scope of GI protec- tion impacts trade in a way that a broader scope translates to a broader barrier to trade. Th erefore, maintaining the proper scope of GI protection by strictly enforcing the link between a product’s geo- graphical origin and its characteristics, quality, or reputation is also essential for trade purposes. Th e above discussion highlights the need for har- monized provisions regarding the coexistence of homonymous GIs under the TRIPS Agreement. One option is to redraft Articles 22 and 23 to ad- dress this issue. Alternatively, given the political and technical challenges of amending the TRIPS Agreement’s articles, a systematic interpretation of its provisions could off er a viable solution, as previously suggested. A third option would involve recognizing homonymous GIs through unambigu- ous clauses in bilateral and plurilateral agreements, thereby avoiding to give