identifies a product as originating in a country, region or locality within the national territory when its quality, reputation or other characteristic is fundamentally attributable to its geographical origin”. Conversely, an AO is under- stood to be a “reference that identifies a product as originating in the country, region or locality within the national territory when its quality, reputation or other characteristic is fundamentally attribut- able to its geographical origin, taking into account, 3 Originally, the Spanish Crown brought the grapes from Europe mainly for consumption and wine production. However, when they banned wine exports to avoid competition with Spain’s domestic industry, these grapes found an alternative purpose in pisco production (Nudman, 2007). 4 Likewise, in Chile, concepts such as certification marks, collective marks, GIs and appellations of origin are collectively referred to as seals of origin (Chilean National Institute of Industrial Property [INAPI], n.d.). 201Revista de Actualidad Mercantil N° 9 / e-ISSN: 2523-2851 Alejo M. Gascónin addition, other natural and human factors that infl uence the characterization of the product”4. Under the legal frameworks of both countries, the protection of Pisco as an AO in Peru and Chile means that its characteristics, quality and reputa- tion are either exclusively or essentially attributable to the geographical environment in which it is pro- duced, including both natural and human factors. Th is standard of GI protection is the same as the one outlined in the Lisbon Agreement, which is more related to the concept of terroir than the one given under the TRIPS Agreement (World T rade Organization [WTO], 1994), due to the defi ni- tion provided by them. Th is discussion is further explained in section 2.1 of this paper. However, it is worth noting that, unlike the Lisbon Agree- ment but in line with the TRIPS Agreement, the defi nition of AO in both Chile and Peru include names that, without specifying a particular coun- try, region or locality, refer to a specifi c geographi- cal area. In Peru, Pisco was offi cially recognized as an AO by the Industrial Technology Institute (which is now known as the National Institute for the Defense of Competition and Intellectual Prop- erty [INDECOPI]), under Directorial Resolution 072087 of 1990. It was later ratifi ed by Supreme Decree 001-91-ICTI/IND in 1991. Th is decree pertains to products derived from the distillation of wines made exclusively from the fermentation of ripe grapes produced along the coast of the de- partments of Lima, Ica, Arequipa, Moquegua, and the valleys of Locumba, Sama and Caplina in the department of Tacna. In Chile, the AO for Pisco was historically de- fi ned by President Carlos Ibáñez del Campo, un- der Decree with Force of Law 18117 in 1931. It was specifi c for a grape distillate elaborated within the departments of Copiapó, Huasco, La Serena, Elqui and Ovalle. Afterwards, the Chilean Minis- try of Agriculture issued the Supreme Decree 521 in 2000, which further laid out the regulations for the AO of Pisco. Although the legal protection