the “GI-pro- tection bargain” may not be breached since the GI-term is associated with different target prod- ucts, and there is no delocalization of the origin of the GI-product in the consumer’s perception. As a result, the GI may keep its distinctiveness and there may not be likelihood of confusion. The above, provided that there is no well-known GI af- fected. Nontheless, the use of identical GI-terms and allowing their coexistence in this scenario is not commercially ideal, since the more unique the GI-term is, the stronger it is as a commercial tool. Therefore, in this case, we encourage the States to establish some measures of differentiation between the identical GIs to strengthen the GI as a valuable commercial tool. In conclusion, coexistence should be allowed as an exception only when a) the fundamental basis of GIs is not breached, meaning that its distinctive character is not diluted or eroded; b) there is not likelihood of confusion; and c) consumers are not misled. This approach can ensure a balanced repre- sentation of the interests of producers, consumers, and the States. First, producers, because they want to and will be able to benefit from the economic functions of the GIs in which they invest. Second, consum- ers, because they want to and will be protected from being confused or misled, and also because of the benefits from the GI’s distinctive function, which reduces the consumers’ search costs. Third, the States (i.e., the public interest), since they will protect consumers, seek to encourage investment in GIs and will be able to use the GI as a precise national symbol to project their culture. 2.1.3. Is Article 23.3 of the TRIPS Agreement enough? Article 23.3 of the TRIPS Agreement, regulating the coexistence of GIs only for wines, establishes that: In the case of homonymous geographical indi- cations for wines, protection shall be accorded to each indication, subject to the provisions of paragraph 4 of Article 22. Each Member shall determine the practical conditions under which the homonymous indications in ques- tion will be differentiated from each other, ta- king into account the need to ensure equitable treatment of the producers concerned and that consumers are not misled. From a literal standpoint, first, the Article estab- lishes coexistence for wines as a rule. Secondly, it dictates that the protection shall be accorded to each indication, leaving the door open to any kind of interpretation as it does not provide any guide- lines to the State on how to proceed. Thirdly, it refers to paragraph 4 of Article 22, under which the protection of GIs shall be applicable against de- ceptive GIs (i.e., GIs that are literally true, but mis- leading regarding the true origin of the goods on which they are used) to prevent consumers from being misled. Fourth, it establishes an ambiguous obligation, according to which each WTO mem- ber shall determine the practical conditions under which the homonymous GIs will be differentiated from each other. However, the provision does not mention whether