that: 5 Peru contends that the term Pisco was usurped by Chile based on the argument that its origin lies in the Peruvian port of Pisco. Hence, only the brandy of Peruvian origin deserves that designation. Consequently, it would be a product of its own, exclusive and incomparable with any other. Chile counters this by noting that the product also came from Coquimbo and Huasco in colonial times. Th ey emphasize that Pisco was a hub for packaging and trade, not the actual point of origin. According to Chile, the real birthplace of Peruvian pisco is Ica, a town near Pisco (Nudman, 2007, p. 2). The Balance of Interests in the Coexistence of Homonymous Geographical Indications: Suggestions for Practical International ImplementationRevista de Actualidad Mercantil N°9202Pisco has no adjectives. It is not correct to in- dicate [that there is a] “Peruvian Pisco”, but simply Pisco, which is the distillate that is pro- duced in a certain area of Peruvian territory, in accordance with the technical specifications contained in the Pisco Denomination of Ori- gin Regulations (Sistema Económico Latinoa- mericano y del Caribe [SELA], 2021, par. 31, free translation). In this context, a Peruvian ambassador of Pisco producers stated that: It is time for Chile to embrace its genuine cul- ture and call its distillate elqui, curicó or limarí, which are beautiful native Chilean words […]. Each culture has its words and has to embrace and love them. We, with all our problems, do not think of using a word that does not corres- pond to us (Paúl, 2021, par. 29, free transla- tion). When analyzing Pisco case, there is a relevant na- tionalistic and cultural factor to consider, rather than simply economic ones. Otherwise, the “truce” proposal would have not been rejected, and it would have allowed Chile and Peru to work togeth- er to develop internationally the GI Pisco. This has happened, for example, with Basmati rice, a joint registration for which India and Pakistan have ac- tively worked together (Kannan, 2008; Ragnekar and Kumar, 2010; Latif and Adil, 2021). It is im- portant to note that, unlike the GI Pisco claimed by Chile and Peru for a distillate with different specifi- cations or characteristics produced in each country, the Basmati GI for rice, shared by India and Paki- stan, has essentially the same specifications. In other words, although Peru and Chile see the exportation of Pisco as a means of agricultural de- velopment, cultural and historical animosity drives their dispute. Indeed, the right to internationally commercialize and produce Pisco under this name, claimed by both countries, reflects national and cultural interests that are larger than simply the worldwide promotion of a niche product and its producers (Mitchell and Terry, 2011). Likewise, political entities claim the origin of products as a means of strengthening national sovereignty, rather than merely acknowledging the rights of agricultural producers (Salazar et al., 2007, p. 1525). Hence, Joelson (2004) mentioned that “perhaps no other issue mobilizes nationalist spirit as much as the question of who