what conditions, the co- existence of homonymous GIs should be allowed to ensure a balance between the interests of the producers, consumers and the public interest rep- resented by the State. To this end, the three issues extrapolated from the Pisco case are delved from a theoretical perspective. In developing the theoretical analysis, this pa- per proposes a systematic interpretation of the TRIPS Agreement to address the coexistence of homonymous GIs and its problems. Such coex- istence can be treated as an exception, provided the distinctiveness of the GIs remains undiluted and consumers are neither confused nor misled. Th is may ensure the balance between the interests of producers, consumers, and the States (public interest). Th e provisions of the TRIPS Agreement were chosen for analysis, as it is the most impor- tant multilateral treaty setting standards for the protection of GIs, with a signifi cant membership of 153 parties. Th e proposed interpretation could lead to a redraft- ing of Articles 22 and 23 of the TRIPS Agreement, as suggested in the third section of this paper. Ad- ditionally, this interpretation might be considered in bilateral or plurilateral agreements where States mutually recognize each other’s GIs. To support this, the third section also introduces a model clause that States can implement. Collectively, the interpretation, the potential redrafting of Ar- ticles 22 and 23 of the TRIPS Agreement, and the model clause for recognizing homonymous GIs in bilateral and plurilateral agreements are proposals that the international community can implement. Finally, the paper suggests that the recognition of the coexistence of homonymous GIs, as a rule, poses some problems, and it should not be allowed in cases where it distinguishes the same or similar products. It also shows that the provision of Article 23.3 of the TRIPS Agreement is not suffi cient to address the issues from the coexistence of homony- mous GIs for wines, let alone its application to the general coexistence of homonymous GIs. Th ere- fore, as stated before, this paper seeks to contribute to the academia by off ering a systematic interpreta- tion of the TRIPS Agreement on this matter apply- ing, by analogy, some of the principles of the trade- mark system. Th e study presents an opportunity to strengthen the geographical basis of GIs, which can be upheld by the WIPO Standing Committee on the Law of T rademarks, Industrial Designs and Geographical Indications; or by States at the local level when regulating this matter in their national laws. Th e paper also puts forth two other practical proposals as outlined in the preceding paragraph. 1. Pisco: the war of the Pacifi c for the homonymous GI In this fi rst section, the case of Pisco will be in- ductively analyzed to identify and extrapolate the issues, if any, raised by the coexistence of homony- mous GIs. To this end, the analysis will consider: a) a brief historical account of the origin of Pisco, b) the legal protection given to Pisco in both coun- tries,