also allow the coexistence of the GI Pisco. In contrast, Chile does not rec- ognize the GI Pisco from Peru and imports it as a distillate not labelled as Pisco. Finally, the United Kingdom also does not recognize the GI Pisco, while Colombia has recognized the exclusive rights of the GI Pisco to Peru. On the other hand, Chile exported a total of 425 000 liters in 2022, amounting to USD 2.53 mil- lion, which represented a 0.5% increase in volume but an 8% decrease in value compared to 2021 figures. During 2022, the leading destinations in terms of export value were the United States (24.6%, USD 0.62 million), Germany (22.5%, USD 0.57 million), Argentina (15.1%, USD 0.38 million), France (8.2%, USD 0.21 million), and China (5.0%, USD 0.13 million). Among these countries, the United States, France, and China have allowed the coexistence of the GI Pisco, while Argentina has not recognized it. It is worth not- ing that Chile produces around 40 million liters of Pisco annually, 95% of which is consumed by the domestic market (Ministry of Agriculture, 2023). In 2022, Chile’s Pisco exports amounted to only 22% of what Peru exported worldwide. T wo con- clusions may be drawn from this: First, the interna- tional market for Pisco exported from Peru is larger than the one from Chile. Second, not all countries that allow coexistence are the primary destinations for Pisco exports from both nations. For instance, while Germany is a significant market for Peruvian Pisco, Chilean Pisco exports to Germany surpass those of Peru — with figures standing at USD 0.57 million for Chile versus USD 0.3 million for Peru. In this sense, both countries might seek to maintain their leading position in exportations by 16 It is important to mention that Peru and Chile mutually neutralize the import of each other’s product into their respective coun- tries (for more details see, Gutiérrez, 2019, p. 280). Andrea Jimenez Garay 209Revista de Actualidad Mercantil N° 9 / e-ISSN: 2523-2851 investing more in marketing to diff erentiate their goods more eff ectively. Consequently, the coexis- tence of the GI Pisco implies additional costs for producers and promoters, including the States themselves, in eff orts to diff erentiate their products in markets where coexistence is allowed. From the sections 2.1-2.6, it is clear that without harmonized provisions in the TRIPS Agreement governing the coexistence of identical or homony- mous GIs in general, several problems arise. Th e following three have been identifi ed and extrapo- lated from the inductive analysis of the Pisco case: a. Consumer confusion by diluting the GIs’ dis- tinctiveness or the link of the product to its geographical origin, from which its characte- ristics, reputation and quality are attributa- ble. Th is also undermines the GIs’ ability to project the culture of a country as a national symbol or a fl agship product. b. Ambiguous international protection, in the sense that even when the homonymous GIs are recognized in other foreign States, mainly under bilateral