1931. It was specifi c for a grape distillate elaborated within the departments of Copiapó, Huasco, La Serena, Elqui and Ovalle. Afterwards, the Chilean Minis- try of Agriculture issued the Supreme Decree 521 in 2000, which further laid out the regulations for the AO of Pisco. Although the legal protection of Pisco in Peru can be historically implied from previous normative bodies, the legal protection for it as an indication of origin was granted earlier in Chile, and in both countries before the TRIPS Agreement. However, it is important to highlight that Chile’s recogni- tion of Pisco in 1931 was prior to the approval of the Intellectual Property Law 19.039, in which Chile offi cially defi ned the concept of a GI and an AO. In fact, this Law was enacted after the Paris Convention (1883), where Article 1 incorporates indications of source or AO within the protection scope of intellectual property. Based on the above, some scholars argue that the legal recognition of Pisco in Chile was granted only as an indication of source and not as a GI, for two reasons. Firstly, there was not a geographical area named Pisco in Chile at that time. Secondly, the Decree with Force of Law 18117 does not mention that the quality, reputation, or other characteristics of Pisco are ex- clusively or essentially attributable to its geographi- cal origin. 1.3. Cultural and nationalistic approach to the protec- tion of Pisco Th e Peruvian government claims exclusive protec- tion for the GI Pisco and is unwilling to either allowing or settling on the coexistence of its GI with that of Chile. Th e Chilean government, on the other hand, has sought to obtain the coexis- tence of both GIs5, at least up until 2019. Th en, it is reasonable to infer that Chile does not see the coexistence as problematic, but rather as a scenar- io to cooperate with Peru and benefi t from pro- tection in markets that exclusively recognize the Peruvian GI. For Chile, endorsing the coexistence will “simplify” the international protection of the GI Pisco. Due to the Peru’s strong position, in March of 2019, Rogers Valencia, who was the Minister of Culture in Peru at the time, declined the “truce” off ered by Antonio Walker, then the Minister of Agriculture in Chile. Th e proposal was for the two countries to complement and recognize each oth- er’s AO in international markets. Peru categorically rejected the proposal, stating that under Peruvian regulations it was not possible to consider Chil- ean aguardiente as Pisco (Paúl, 2021). Th ese facts prove the opposing positions of Peru and Chile. In fact, the Peruvian chancellery, in its refusal of the “truce” proposition, emphasized that: 5 Peru contends that the term Pisco was usurped by Chile based on the argument that its origin lies in the Peruvian port of Pisco. Hence, only the brandy of Peruvian origin deserves that designation. Consequently, it would be a product of its own, exclusive and incomparable with any