plurilateral agreements. Such obli- gation is only required in the case of wines by Article 23.3 of the TRIPS Agreement. b. Countries where the recognition of the GI Pisco is exclusive to Chile or Peru. Thus, neither country can export its products to countries where the other has exclusive rights16. c. Countries where the GI Pisco is not recog- nized for either Peru or Chile. Since there is no recognition, products from both countries can be exported and compete in these mar- kets, provided they comply with the national regulations concerning the commercializa- tion of such products. 1.6. Economic significance of the international recog- nition of the GI Pisco After describing the scenario of the international recognition of the GI Pisco in different countries, it is important to clarify the economic significance of the three scenarios presented in section 1.5. Recognizing the GI Pisco internationally lets Peru and Chile export goods to countries where its pro- tection is granted. If coexistence is allowed or if neither country has recognition, goods from both Peru and Chile can be commercialized. The dif- ference lies in the conditions of the coexistence recognition of the GI Pisco: under this, no other country can claim rights over this GI, nor can it be used as a generic in the market, opposite to what happens when the GI is not recognized at all. Fi- nally, if one country has exclusive rights, the other cannot export its products. To assess the significance of this situation for Peru and Chile, it is important to briefly mention the characteristics of the Pisco industry in both coun- tries. In Peru, 525 companies are registered in the Directory of Pisco Producers (2021), as reported by INDECOPI and the Peruvian Ministry of Pro- duction (n.d.). In contrast, Chile has only twenty- five, based on data from the Chilean Ministry of Agriculture (2023). According to the PROMPERU report, in 2022, the demand for Pisco from Peru reached USD 11.4 million in deliveries, which meant a 48.9% increase from the previous year. In the same year, Peru exported Pisco to forty-three countries, being the United States the main market with purchases worth USD 4.5 million, marking a 21% growth from the year before. This increase in demand is probably attributed to the United States allowing the coexistence of the GI Pisco. Other consumers who have Pisco among their favorite drinks in- clude Spain (USD 1.1 million), the Netherlands (USD 0.9 million), Chile (USD 0.9 million), France (USD 0.6 million), Belgium (USD 0.7 million), the United Kingdom (USD 0.3 million), Colombia (USD 0.4 million) and Germany (USD 0.3 million) (Government of Peru, 2023). Spain, France, the Netherlands, Belgium, and Germany, as members of the EU, also allow the coexistence of the GI Pisco. In contrast, Chile does not rec- ognize the GI Pisco from Peru and imports it as a distillate not labelled as Pisco. Finally, the United Kingdom also does not recognize the GI Pisco, while Colombia has recognized the exclusive rights of the