the country where coexistence is claimed. In this case, States should consider the principles of the well-known-trade- marks provisions of the TRIPS Agreement (Ar- ticle 16.3) to assess if said coexistence should be allowed. In doing so, the States should analyze if the other GI, which is intended to coexist with the well-known GI, is likely to cause confusion, regard- less of the specifi city principle. Th is scenario would arise when the recognition of the non-well-known GIs, in relation to the goods distinguished, suggests a connection or link to the well-known GI’s origin. Also, when the GI-area, nation, or region, as well as its producers’ interests concerning the well-known GI, are at risk of being compromised by a dilution or tarnishing of its distinctiveness. Unlike trademarks, for practical purposes, the well-known GI should fi rst be recognized in the State where coexisting is under consideration. Otherwise, it will be technically and politically complicated to implement a procedure in which the country owner of the well-known GI could op- pose the recognition of the other GI under a bilat- eral or plurilateral trade agreement. In light of what has been discussed in sections 2.1.1. and 2.1.2., and considering the three sce- 22 For more details about the legal presumptions see Rudzkis and Panamariovas, 2017. The Balance of Interests in the Coexistence of Homonymous Geographical Indications: Suggestions for Practical International ImplementationRevista de Actualidad Mercantil N°9214narios in which homonymous GIs may be claimed as distinctive signs, the question of “when should the coexistence of homonymous GIs be allowed?”, or in other words, “when should the exception ap- ply?” might be answered as follows: For the first scenario, where the homonymous GI distinguishes the same type of product, the “GI- protection bargain” is breached by the delocaliza- tion of the origin of the GI-product in the consum- er’s perception. This means that the distinctiveness of the GI or the concept of the terroir, as the funda- mental basis of GI protection, is diluted or eroded. Likewise, in this scenario, theoretically, there is likelihood of confusion, which is even presumed. In this regard, the Pisco case has proven that, when two identical GIs for identical (i.e., same type of) products coexist, there is likelihood of confusion, as the Chilean producers have recognized. Similarly, in the second scenario, where the hom- onymous GI distinguishes similar or commercially related products, the “GI-protection bargain” is also breached by the delocalization of the origin of the GI-product in the consumer’s perception. Thus, the distinctiveness of the GI is also diluted or eroded, as in the previous one. Likewise, theo- retically, there is likelihood of confusion in this scenario. Regarding the third scenario, where homonymous GI distinguishes different products, the “GI-pro- tection bargain” may not be breached since the GI-term is associated with different target prod- ucts, and there is no delocalization of the origin of the GI-product in the consumer’s perception. As a result, the GI may keep its distinctiveness and there may not be likelihood of confusion.