origin of products, and to use such information as a difficult-to-reproduce attribute to differenti- ate them in the market (Menapace and Moschini, 2012). Likewise, beyond functioning as a market- ing tool, GIs also provide States with a means to develop the GI’s territory, and can serve as a na- tional symbol to project the culture of the place of origin. After the Uruguay Round of the World T rade Or- ganization (WTO) members, with the adoption of The Agreement on T rade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS), the role of GIs began to gain prominence at the multilateral level, and as part of free trade agreement negotia- tions and national policies. As a result, a growing number of scholars have paid more attention to GIs, and their legal treatment has become a fun- damental part of policy discussions on economic and social development both nationally and inter- nationally (Calboli, 2021, p. 289). Moreover, in the latest round of negotiations among the WTO Members (namely, the Doha Round), a discussion emerged regarding the creation of a multilateral system for the notification and registration of GIs at the WTO level for wines and spirits. This initia- tive was proposed as a possible solution to the low level of protection of GIs outside its jurisdiction and the associated costs and difficulties in enforce- ment (WTO, n.d.). The discussion of the referenced proposeal could spotlight the analysis of conflicting claims over GIs and, consequently, further investigation regard- ing the coexistence of homonymous GIs in gen- eral. In other words, an in-depth analysis of the coexistence of identical GIs for identical types of products with different specifications and origins. This coexistence has neither been peaceful nor sufficiently discussed by scholars, partly due to the few cases in which this situation is presented. This coexistence has neither been peaceful nor suf- ficiently examined by scholars, partly due to the limited cases in which it arises. Nonetheless, its analysis represents an opportunity to re-legitimize the international debate on GIs. This aligns also with Calboli’s (2014) proposal to examine the definition of GIs, as well as understanding the fun- damental attributes that make GIs a difficult-to- reproduce attribute. The coexistence of homonymous GIs, in general, is not regulated by any international treaty. In fact, the sole provision regulating homonymous GIs for wines is found in Article 23.3 of the TRIPS Agreement. Consequently, this paper examines the coexistence of GIs in the absence of explicit international harmonized provisions, to determine whether Article 23.3 of the TRIPS Agreement is sufficient to address this issue in general, so that its application can be extended to non-wine GIs. In the first part of this paper, I explore whether the coexistence of homonymous GIs in general raises any challenges. The aim is to identify any issues posed by such coexistence. To this end, I will focus on the case of the coexistence of the homonymous GI for grape distillates: “Pisco”, claimed by both Chile and Peru. This case was chosen over others