Tür- kiye (2009). Th ese agreements off er mutual rec- ognition of the protection for each country’s GIs, including Pisco, on behalf of Chile, which in some cases is written as Pisco Chile (Singapore, New Zealand, Brunei, Darussalam) or Pisco Chileno (Japan and the United States). However, in the plurilateral free trade agree- ment between the United Kingdom on one side and Peru, Ecuador, and Colombia (2019) on the other, many Peruvian AOs are recognized, except for Pisco. A similar omission can be seen in the bilateral agreement between Chile and the United Kingdom (Association Agreement Chile - United Kingdom, 2019). In light of the above, the coexistence of the hom- onymous AO Pisco is a global reality in at least 40 countries. In contrast, 30 countries exclusively grant the protection to Peru (El Peruano, 2022), while 5 countries off er exclusive protection to Chile. As mentioned above, Article 23.3 of the TRIPS Agreement allows the coexistence of homonymous GIs for wines. In such cases, the States shall de- termine the practical conditions under which the homonymous indications will be diff erentiated from each other, considering a) the need to ensure equitable treatment of the respective producers; and b) that consumers are not misled. Notably, there is no provision in the TRIPS Agreement that regulates or prohibits the coexistence of homony- mous GIs for products other than wines. Nevertheless, Article 22.2.b of the TRIPS Agree- ment prevents the use of a GI that constitutes an act of unfair competition, as defi ned by Ar- ticle 10bis of the Paris Convention. In other words, this refers to acts that might create confu- sion by any means, false allegations in the course of trade, and indications or allegations the use of which in the course of trade is liable to mislead the public by any means (deceptive GIs). From the above, the following three scenarios can be identifi ed: a. Countries where the coexistence of the GI Pisco from Peru and Chile is allowed, and no measures to diff erentiate each other, diff erent than the recognition of the GI Pisco along with the name of the country, have been im- plemented by the States in the framework of 14 For the purpose of this paper, all the bilateral agreements and multilateral agreements signed by Peru until 2023 have been re- viewed (Peruvian Ministry of International Commerce and Tourism, n.d.). 15 For the purpose of this paper, all the bilateral agreements and multilateral agreements signed by Chile until 2023 have been re- viewed (Chilean Sub secretary of International Economic Relations (n.d.). The Balance of Interests in the Coexistence of Homonymous Geographical Indications: Suggestions for Practical International ImplementationRevista de Actualidad Mercantil N°9208bilateral or plurilateral agreements. Such obli- gation is only required in the case of wines by Article 23.3 of the TRIPS Agreement. b. Countries where the recognition of the GI Pisco is exclusive to Chile or Peru. Thus, neither country can export its products to countries where the other has exclusive rights16.