to which its char- acteristics, reputation and quality should be exclu- sively (or at the most “essentially”) attributable. However, the TRIPS Agreement expands the defi- nition of GIs, thereby weakening their protection and allowing their delocalization. This favors the dilution of the information content of GI promo- tion or geographical origin (Menapace and Mos- chini, 2014, p. 1031). Therefore, the coexistence of homonymous GIs for identical or similar products should be interpreted with a strict territorial approach, so that the GIs’ fundamental basis or core, i.e., the concept of ter- roir, prevails. Otherwise, the distinctive function of the GI, as a distinctive sign that conveys infor- mation about the geographical origin of the GI- products, may be eroded or diluted, specifically in relation to the product it aims to identify in the market. Should this occur, there is a potential risk that the GI may become a non-distinctive sign, which would then fall outside of the scope of intel- lectual property protection. 2.1.2. Likelihood of confusion in the market and mis- leading consumers From a theoretical standpoint, as explained above, the coexistence of homonymous GIs for identi- cal or similar products results in a delocalization of their origin in the perception of the consumers, who do not receive accurate information about the origin of the product from the GI itself. Therefore, it constitutes a breach of the “GI-protection bar- gain” (or the dilution of the GI’s distinctiveness), which causes confusion in the market or mislead consumers. The coexistence of identical trademarks (distinctive signs) on behalf of two different titleholders is the exception rather than the rule (WIPO Magazine, 2006). In such cases, the public interest and the interests of consumers take precedence, meaning that the distinctiveness of the trademark and the consumer’s protection prevail over the likelihood of confusion and misleading situations. By anal- ogy, the recognition of homonymous GIs by third countries could only be considered fair or lawful Andrea Jimenez Garay 213Revista de Actualidad Mercantil N° 9 / e-ISSN: 2523-2851 as an exception, provided there is no likelihood of confusion, the consumers are not misled, and the GI’s distinctiveness is not diluted. Th ese factors should be assessed ex ante, before recognizing both homonymous GIs abroad, to prevent confusing or misleading the consumer due to their coexistence. On the one hand, concerning the misleading of consumers, Article 22.4 of the TRIPS Agreement stipulates that the GI’s protection shall be applica- ble against those that, although literally true as to the territory, region or locality in which the goods originate, falsely represent to the public that the goods originate in another territory. Likewise, Ar- ticle 23.3 states that the practical conditions that the States shall implement to diff erentiate their homonymous GIs, when allowing the coexistence of identical GIs for wines, should take into account the need to ensure that consumers are not misled. On the other hand, confusion is an act prevented by the protection of the GIs in Article 22.2.b of the TRIPS Agreement. Under this article,