This principle is used to resolve conflicting claims to an identical mark by different owners. Given that protection for a specific GI in a foreign country starts with its recognition, and consider- ing that this recognition can be granted under bi- lateral or plurilateral trade agreements, multilateral systems like the Lisbon Agreement, or any sui ge- neris regime dictated by the national law of each jurisdiction, a critical question arises: What should be the principle to resolve conflicting claims over the rights of a given GI? This question is proposed for future discussions. Indeed, elaborating a detailed answer to these questions is outside the scope of this paper. Nev- ertheless, for further research, I will attempt to do so by proposing a principle of priority in GIs based on geography. Not surprisingly, once again, bor- rowing the expression of Calboli (2014, p. 67), the solution to the GI debate and concerns lies in geography. To reply to the previous questions, I consider that it is important to recall the fundamental basis of GIs protection development. In other words, to recall the concept of terroir or the link between the product’s geographical origin and its characteris- tics, quality or reputation. In this regard, Frankel (2017, p. 148) states that what makes GIs valu- able, at least initially, is the place with which the GI-branded product is associated, and such asso- ciation (if they are genuine) is not identically rep- licable. Therefore, in my perspective, the priority right should be granted to the State that possesses geographical rights over the given indication or GI-term. If two countries share this right, it should be given to the one with historical precedence, which can be proven by referencing the GI-term on maps. In situations where the GI-term represents an area falling within the territories of both states claim- ing its protection, and where historical maps from the same date bear this term on each country, or in instances where the GI is not the name of a territorial region (as might be allowed under the TRIPS Agreement), or where states lack historical evidence corroborating the GI-term’s reference on maps, it is in these exceptional circumstances that I propose the priority right be granted to the state with evidence of first use of the GI. Andrea Jimenez Garay 217Revista de Actualidad Mercantil N° 9 / e-ISSN: 2523-2851 I consider that in these exceptional situations, the priority principle right should be based on the fi rst use and not on the fi rst registration. Th is is because GI’s “registration” implies the recognition of rights over the characteristics, quality and reputation of a product that already exists in the market. Essen- tially, it is the same as offi cially accepting that a product of a given quality, reputation and charac- teristics exists under the GI-name, as to prevent third parties from using it for diff erent products that do not comply with the specifi cations. As a consequence of applying the priority principle for GIs in