AO, Pisco, under the Lisbon Agree- ment, and the Chilean AO, Pisco, under the pro- visions of the FTA between Central America (in- cluding Costa Rica) and Chile, in force since 2002. In fact, Costa Rica withdrew in 2007 the partial recognition granted in 2006 (Direction of Indus- trial Property Registry of Costa Rica, 2006). At the time of granting the partial recognition, Costa 13 In Bulgaria, the protection for Pisco on behalf of Peru was fi rstly refused due to the prior national registered trademark P .I.C. Co. and design (Certifi cate No. 41228). Th en, the grounds for refusal changed, as mentioned in the paragraph (Patent Offi ce of the Republic of Bulgaria, 2006). The Balance of Interests in the Coexistence of Homonymous Geographical Indications: Suggestions for Practical International ImplementationRevista de Actualidad Mercantil N°9206Rica stated that it was granted because the name of the AO could not be protected exclusively for the holder from Peru. Nevertheless, in 2007, this recognition was withdrawn due to the application for the recognition of the GI Pisco filed by Chile in Costa Rica, under the FTA between Costa Rica and Chile. Costa Rica stated that the coexistence of homonymous GIs is allowed, under the TRIPS Agreement, its national intellectual property law, and the aforementioned FTA, (Direction of Indus- trial Property Registry of Costa Rica, 2007). In summary, under the Lisbon Agreement, the GI Pisco was completely rejected by Iran, as well as by Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, France, Italy, Hungary, Slovakia and Portugal (all the latter EU members). In these EU members countries, the protection was refused only if it constituted an obstacle to the use of the products from Chile. In my opinion, this creates ambiguity, since it is not clear whether these refusals are conditioned to not interfere with the protection for the Chilean GI Pisco, previously recognized by bilateral or pluri- lateral trade agreements, or whether these refusals are absolute. Furthermore, there is no definition of what is meant by interfering with the Chilean GI. This ambiguity was later clarified, by Com- mission Regulation 1065/2013 of 2013, which allowed the coexistence of both GIs throughout the EU, and therefore also in the latter counties mentioned above. In the same line of reasoning, it is fair to conclude that the bilateral or plurilateral recognition of the GI Pisco for Chile blocked the recognition of the GI Pisco on behalf of Peru for international ap- plication under the Lisbon Agreement. This sce- nario persisted unless Peru entered into a bilateral or plurilateral agreement with members of the Lis- bon Union who had previously refused it based on an existing bilateral or plurilateral trade agreement signed with Chile. It is unclear on what grounds these bilateral agreements impeded the recognition under the Lisbon Agreement. There is ambiguity regarding whether this blockage corresponds to the interpretation that the Lisbon Agreement does not allow the coexistence of homonymous GIs. More- over, while the EU has recognized the coexistence, its members have yet to withdraw