of the goods on which they are used) to prevent consumers from being misled. Fourth, it establishes an ambiguous obligation, according to which each WTO mem- ber shall determine the practical conditions under which the homonymous GIs will be differentiated from each other. However, the provision does not mention whether this obligation should be fulfilled by the members that allow or claim coexistence. Fifth and finally, the need to ensure equitable treat- ment of the producers, and that consumers are not misled is a condition for fulfilling the previously mentioned obligation, not for assessing whether coexistence should be allowed. I consider Article 23.3. is not enough to regulate the coexistence of GIs for wines and, in a broader Andrea Jimenez Garay 215Revista de Actualidad Mercantil N° 9 / e-ISSN: 2523-2851 context, for other products as well. Here, I present my reasoning: First, it does not contemplate coexistence as an ex- ception. Second, it does not oblige States to analyze whether the coexistence will dilute or erode the distinctiveness of the GI (the concept of terroir), which is the fundamental basis for its protection and existence. It also does not ad- dress the likelihood of confusion that the co- existence might create, or whether consumers could be misled by allowing such coexistence. Th ird, it does not off er any harmonized pro- visions for States to determine whether coe- xistence could pose problems and, therefore, whether it should be disallowed. Fourth, the obligation to establish measures of diff erentiation is ambiguous, as it is unclear which competing GI claim these measures should target or upon whom they should be imposed. However, even if the diff erentiation measures were clear, they would represent additional costs for producers and States, and still might not be enough in scenarios where, as analyzed earlier, coexistence should not be allowed. Furthermore, regarding the condi- tions that States must comply when establis- hing said measures, there is no reference made to prevent the likelihood of confusion. Fifth, by stating that “protection shall be ac- corded to each indication”, Article 22.3. provi- des no harmonization guidelines to States to determine when the coexistence of homon- ymous GIs should be allowed, and it leaves the door open for States to make prevail their economic interests. Th e latter is risky, as States could allow the coexistence of homonymous GIs in situations where such exception should not be applied. Th is could compromise the GIs’ distinctiveness character, and lead to confusion or mislead for both consumers and producers. In the absence of general provisions regulating the coexistence of homonymous GIs, the Standing Committee on the Law of T rademarks, Industrial Designs and GIs of WIPO (2000) proposed ex- tending the principle of Article 23.3 to all prod- ucts, regardless of the type for which the GIs are used. However, in my opinion, this provision is not enough and, even more concerning, it pre- serves the possibility of allowing the coexistence of homonymous GIs as a rule, despite the potential issues