be al- Andrea Jimenez Garay 221Revista de Actualidad Mercantil N° 9 / e-ISSN: 2523-2851 lowed as an exception in cases where: a) the funda- mental basis of the GIs is not breached, meaning their distinctive character is neither diluted nor eroded; b) there’s no risk of confusion; and c) con- sumers are not misled regarding the origin, qual- ity, characteristics, or reputation of the product attributable to its origin. Th is suggestion seeks to balance the interests of producers, consumers, and the public interest represented by States. Consequently, given that Article 23.3 of the TRIPS Agreement does not align perfectly with the pro- posed interpretation, I conclude that it is not enough to address the coexistence of homonymous GIs for wines or to expand its purview to coexis- tence more broadly regardless the product, as it fa- cilitates the delocalization of the GI by allowing the coexistence of homonymous GIs as a rule, expand- ing its concepts, and not addressing the likelihood of confusion that arises from such coexistence, among other issues I’ve detailed in the paper. In this context, the lack of provisions regulating the coexistence of homonymous GIs in general has prompted countries to favor their economic inter- ests over the fundamental essence of GIs. Th is is manifest in the recognition and allowance of coex- isting GIs, primarily through bilateral and plurilat- eral trade agreements, without due consideration of the issues this might cause. Further, no practical measure has been established by the States for their diff erentiation. Such an approach has granted GIs what this paper terms as ‘empty protection,’ under- mining the distinctiveness of the GIs and leaving consumers vulnerable to confusion and deception. Moreover, it has imposed additional burdens on both producers and States, namely the cost of dif- ferentiation. Consequently, I proposed a systematic interpreta- tion of the TRIPS Agreement to address the co- existence of homonymous GIs. Th is segues into our second and third proposals: a revised text for Articles 22 and 23 of the TRIPS Agreement and a model clause for recognizing homonymous GIs in bilateral and international agreements. Moreover, while it lies beyond the scope of this paper, I have posited a principle of priority for confl icting claims over homonymous GIs. Th is principle would pri- oritize titleholders based on historically mapped geography. In cases where this is not feasible, the focus would shift to prior use. In summary, analyzing the coexistence of hom- onymous GIs in general should be viewed as an opportunity to establish clear and harmonized rules strengthened by the adoption of a strict terri- torial-geographical approach. Such approach aims to balance the interests of producers, consumers, and States representing the public interest. Doing so might restore legitimacy of GIs in the interna- tional debate. Th is debate has faced considerable criticism over the years, even more so due to the broader defi nition of GIs introduced in the TRIPS Agreement. Bibliography Allende, I. (2011). El cuaderno de Maya. España, Plaza & Janés. Andean Community.