principle of Article 23.3 to all prod- ucts, regardless of the type for which the GIs are used. However, in my opinion, this provision is not enough and, even more concerning, it pre- serves the possibility of allowing the coexistence of homonymous GIs as a rule, despite the potential issues I have detailed above.Given the established provisions of the TRIPS Agreement, and the stipulation that homonymous GIs for wines can coexist (as long as consumers are protected from misleading GIs), I concede there is no practical alternative to address this issue other than applying the principle set out in Article 23.3 and letting the States determine the practical con- ditions under which their GIs will be diff erentiated in the market, considering the need to ensure eq- uitable treatment of the concerned producers and that consumers are not misled. Th is latter is, in my opinion, referred to the States that are subject to the coexistence constrained by those that allow it. In this paper I propose a systematic interpretation of the TRIPS Agreement, as elaborated earlier. Th e proposal considers, by analogy, certain principles of the trademark system that States can apply to assess whether they should allow the coexistence of homonymous GIs. In my opinion, it should be done as an exception in the cases described in sec- tion 2.1.2. Such an interpretation may lead to a redrafting of Articles 22 and 23 of the TRIPS Agreement and might also encourage States to redraft the clauses of the bilateral or plurilateral trade agreements un- der which the coexistence of homonymous GIs is allowed. To further aid this process, the third part of this paper elaborates two additional proposals, complementary to the proposed systematic inter- pretation and not mutually exclusive. 2.2. International regime for the coexistence of homonymous GI: trade agreements as a tool for GIs recognition, and the unjus- tifi ed additional diﬀ erentiation cost 2.2.1. Conﬂ icting claims over an identical GI by diﬀ e- rent titleholder GIs are both commercial instruments and symbols of national or regional identity (Gervais, 2012, p. 122). Th ey are protected and recognized by inter- national treaties and multilateral agreements, such as the TRIPS Agreement, as well as by bilateral and plurilateral trade agreements. In this context, there is an increasing shift away from the WTO and other systems, such as the one established by the Lisbon Agreement, in favor of bilateral and pluri- lateral trade agreements (Calboli, 2014, p. 67) for the recognition and protection of GIs. In this sense, as illustrated by the Pisco case, the international recognition of a homonymous GI under the Lisbon Agreement has been blocked due The Balance of Interests in the Coexistence of Homonymous Geographical Indications: Suggestions for Practical International ImplementationRevista de Actualidad Mercantil N°9216to its prior recognition for another country under bilateral or plurilateral trade agreements. Based on the above, it is reasonable to conclude that, in the case of conflicting GI claims, the priority right in an international GI registration system is