its origin. In my opinion, the clauses recognizing the coex- istence of homonymous GIs have bestowed upon them what I term “empty protection.” This refers to a recognition that comes at the expense of po- tential market confusion, the risk of misleading consumers, and the dilution or erosion of the GI’s distinctiveness, often driven by political or economic interests. This approach has created an additional unjustified cost or barrier for producers and promoters, such as the States, to enter the GI market, i.e., the cost of differentiation. Differentiation entails offering customers some- thing of value that competitors lack. However, manufacturing a unique product does not guaran- tee a competitive edge in the market unless con- sumers discern and appreciate what the seller is differentiating on (McMillan & McGrath, 1997). In the context of homonymous GIs for similar or identical products, the link between the product’s characteristics, quality, reputation, and origin becomes diluted. Consequently, this link cannot be effectively used as a marketing tool for dif- ferentiation. As a result, producers and promot- ers must invest more in marketing strategies to clearly convey to consumers the unique attributes of their GI, elucidating how and why it stands apart from other homonymous GI so they can value them. Thus, in countries where coexistence is allowed, producers must promote their trade- marks identifying their GI products and comply with their own GI regulations, among other legal tasks. They also tackle challenges stemming from the coexistence of identical GIs for identical or similar products. This situation inevitably leads to the added costs of differentiation, as previously discussed.In the second scenario, where States grant exclu- sive rights solely to one country, there is no added cost of differentiation. In this situation, States need only ensure they do not unreasonably hinder the free movement of goods in trade, especially when coexistence does not pose an issue. This exception is permissible provided the conditions for its appli- cation, as previously detailed, are met. Addition- ally, States should remain cognizant of the prin- ciple of priority for GIs, as previously explained and proposed. In the third scenario, where States do not recognize any homonymous GIs, challenges arise for the pro- ducers of GIs and States seeking protection. The lack of protection means the GI can be freely used to identify any product, including those identified by the GI. This could render the GI a generic term. However, this dilemma can be tackled through an international GI registration system akin to that established by the Lisbon Agreement or the one proposed by the EU during the Doha Round of WTO negotiations. Alternatively, bilateral agree- ments shaped by mutual commercial interests can also offer a solution. From the three scenarios, it is reasonable to con- clude that the States have recognized homony- mous GIs through bilateral and plurilateral agree- ments, giving priority to the countries’ economic and political interests even at the expense of the likelihood of confusion in the market, the mis- leading of consumers, and the dilution or