homonymous GIs in general raises any challenges. The aim is to identify any issues posed by such coexistence. To this end, I will focus on the case of the coexistence of the homonymous GI for grape distillates: “Pisco”, claimed by both Chile and Peru. This case was chosen over others such as: Rioja (Spain) vs. Rioja (Argentina) for wines, Lemberg (South Africa) vs. St. Magdalena am Lemberg (Austria) for wines, and Ribera del Duero (EU) vs. Rivera (Uruguay) for wines, for the following reasons. Firstly, it involves two devel- oping countries1 from the “New World”2 of Latin America; secondly, Pisco is considered by some scholars as the first legally recognized GI in the Americas (Hinojosa, 2019); and, thirdly, despite sharing cultural and historical similarities, the two countries have different positions on the matter. From the analysis of the Pisco case, three prob- lems arising from the coexistence of homonymous GIs have been identified and extrapolated. Firstly, the consumers confusion, by diluting or eroding the GI’s distinctiveness. Such confusion not only 1 While today’s consumers exhibit a keen interest in geographic origins, GIs—beyond the occasional hype—can often serve as a valuable tool in boosting rural incomes in developing countries. Given that GI-based marketing can help developing farmers, pro- perly calibrated legal protection of GIs should be part of a “development agenda” for jurisdictions with significant rural economies (Hughes, 2017). 2 On the one hand, some European countries (emigrant countries), representing the so-called “old world”, have a long tradition of protecting GIs. On the other hand, the United States, Canada, Australia, and New Zealand, among others (immigrant countries), representing the so-called “new world”, have not historically had separate laws to protect GIs beyond their respective systems of trademarks (Cortes, J.M., 2004). Andrea Jimenez Garay 199Revista de Actualidad Mercantil N° 9 / e-ISSN: 2523-2851 hampers the GI’s ability to represent the culture of a country as a national symbol but also hinders its potential to foster development in the associated territory. Secondly, an ambiguous international protection, mainly under bilateral and plurilat- eral agreements, which recognized and allowed the coexistence of homonymous GIs as a rule but do not determine the practical conditions for their diff erentiations. Th irdly, the erosion of the economic value of GIs as a marketing tool, which may discourage producers from investing in the GI and deter States from pursuing successful GI development. In the second part of the paper, I address how the coexistence of homonymous GIs should be ap- proached, given the absence of explicit interna- tional harmonized provisions regulating it and the fact that such coexistence is currently allowed only for wines. Th e aim of this second part is to estab- lish whether, and under what conditions, the co- existence of homonymous GIs should be allowed to ensure a balance between the interests of the producers, consumers and the public interest rep- resented by the State. To this end, the three issues extrapolated from the Pisco case are delved from a theoretical perspective. In developing