is protected in Chile and Peru as an AO, which, by defi nition, has a closer basis on the con- cept of terroir than GIs. However, internationally it is mostly recognized and protected as a GI (on its broader concept), particularly in those juris- dictions that do not distinguish between GI and AO. However, even if recognized as an AO, the recognition, if granted for both countries, would be weaker than an exclusive recognition for just one country. Th is is because it would be granted at the expense of maintaining the link between the GI-territory and the GI-product; that is, at the ex- pense of Pisco geographical origin accuracy. In the same way, from my perspective, the coexis- tence of homonymous GIs for identical or similar products can also be considered as a way of de- localizing the origin of the GI-product under the consumer’s perception. Th is is because when hom- onymous GIs coexist for identical or similar prod- ucts, the GI-term ceases to off er consumers unique and precise information about the origin of each product. Th is could mislead or confuse consumers, as seen in the case of Pisco. In this regard, I consider that the delocalization of the origin may not occur when dealing with iden- tical GIs for diff erent products. Within the trade- mark system, identical signs for diff erent products can coexist because they can still accurately inform consumers of the origin or source of the products, allowing trademark owners to diff erentiate their ventures in the market. As a result, trademarks retain their distinctive character in this scenario21. By analogy, the same rationale can be applied to identical GIs for diff erent products, especially giv- en that GIs and trademarks, both being distinctive signs, serve similar economic functions, as previ- ously noted. Consequently, allowing the coexistence of homon- ymous GIs for identical or similar products would undermine the fundamental rationale behind GIs that justifi es their legal protection. In other words, such coexistence would breach the link between the GI product and its geographical origin. For Calboli (2014), when producers turn to out- side resources to take advantage of a partially or completely delocalized production model, allowed by the GI’s broader concept under the TRIPS Agreement, they unequivocally breach what the author calls the “GI-protection bargain”, that is: 21 For this paper, the analysis is made considering that the GI has not gained a well-known caracther in its country or its not inter- nationally renowned, in which case principles to protect this type of trademarks can apply. The Balance of Interests in the Coexistence of Homonymous Geographical Indications: Suggestions for Practical International ImplementationRevista de Actualidad Mercantil N°9212The fact that GIs are protected because they inform consumers about the link between the natural and human factors of the GI-denomi- nated areas and the products coming from tho- se areas, and therefore provide economic incen- tives to invest and maintain economic capital in those same areas. (p. 62) From my perspective, when States