it is reasonable to con- clude that the States have recognized homony- mous GIs through bilateral and plurilateral agree- ments, giving priority to the countries’ economic and political interests even at the expense of the likelihood of confusion in the market, the mis- leading of consumers, and the dilution or erosion of the GI’s distinctiveness. Moreover, States have failed to establish precise practical conditions for differentiation, as Article 23.3 of the TRIPS Agree- ment stipulates. A clear example of how States may prioritize their economic and political interests when faced with the coexistence of homonymous GIs is Spain’s contradictory position on this issue. Indeed, Spain (EU Member Country) recognized the protection of Pisco from Chile and Peru but claimed the ex- clusive protection of the GI Rioja, arguing that its coexistence with the Rioja GI from Argentina, on the one hand, will cause confusion in the market, since the consumers will associate the Argentinean wine with the Spanish wines’ quality and reputa- tion; and, on the other hand, the Argentinean wine would also usurp the notoriety and reputation of the Spain region Rioja winery and the Spanish GI. Therefore, in light of the systematic interpretation of the TRIPS Agreement proposed above, I recom- mend considering all these criteria when drafting Andrea Jimenez Garay 219Revista de Actualidad Mercantil N° 9 / e-ISSN: 2523-2851 the clause in bilateral or plurilateral trade agree- ments related to recognizing homonymous GIs. Th is will be further detailed in the third section of this paper to ensure clarity and avoid any ambigu- ity or ‘empty protection’ of GIs. 2.3. Economic signifi cance of the coexistence of homonymous GIs Indeed, legal protection of GIs does not automati- cally ensure their market success. Other factors, such as investment and infrastructure around the concerned business, industry, place, and commu- nities, are essential to achieve the previously de- tailed purposes of GIs. Nevertheless, adequate legal protection and harmonized provisions are founda- tional starting points. Without them, there would be little incentive to invest in developing other necessary components. Th e right scope of protec- tion can signifi cantly infl uence trade, thereby af- fecting the success of a GI. Based on the above premise, the problems raised by allowing the coexistence of homonymous GIs as a rule, as it has been allowed until now in the absence of provisions on this matter in the TRIPS Agreement, undermine the value of the GI as a tool for promotion, development, and national and cultural identifi cation, with two economic consequences. Firstly, allowing the coexistence of homonymous GIs could discourage producers from investing in them. Th is is primarily due to the added costs of diff erentiation mentioned earlier. Producers may need to over-invest to strengthen and, where fea- sible, maintain the distinctiveness of the GIs, en- suring their market value remains intact. In fact, diluting a GI’s distinctiveness eff ectively reduces the value derived from each dollar GI producers spend. Th is dilution might subsequently decrease their motivation to promote or invest