protected because they inform consumers about the link between the natural and human factors of the GI-denomi- nated areas and the products coming from tho- se areas, and therefore provide economic incen- tives to invest and maintain economic capital in those same areas. (p. 62) From my perspective, when States allow the coex- istence of homonymous GIs for identical or similar products, it results in their delocalization. This, in turn, breaches the “GI-protection bargain”, based on the concept of terroir. Moreover, in my opin- ion, this delocalization may also hamper the ability of the GI to project the culture of a country as a national symbol. Otherwise, countries like Chile and Argentina, for example, would not have rec- ognized or promoted their GIs in tandem with the country’s name to indicate the accurate geographi- cal origin of the GI-products, since the GI-term can no longer fulfill said distinctive function as a source of information regarding the product’s geo- graphical origin. The expansion of the GI concept under Article 22.2 of the TRIPS Agreement should be consid- ered as an over-protective regime. When IP rights are overprotected, they take on the economic char- acteristics of subsidies. This is because, in an en- vironment where it is “raining carrots”, producers hardly need or pursue investments in the GI-terri- tory if substantive reward can be obtained from the existing regime, which allows the delocalization of the GI (Frankel, 2017, p. 163). Hence, to avoid said overprotection, States should adopt a stricter territorial or geographical ap- proach, as proposed by Calboli (2014, p. 59). Ac- cording to the author, this could be the much-need solution to restore legitimacy to the international debate on GIs, since, as GI critics have pointed out, GIs can become an unjustified market entry barrier and a disguised subsidy, especially when they do not fully reflect the geographical origin of the products they identify. Accordingly, I believe that a stricter territorial or geographical approach would be the solution for States to ascertain under which situations or conditions the coexistence of homonymous GIs should be allowed. In my view, coexistence should only be allowed as an exception when the GI-pro- tection bargain or the distinctive role of the GI, as an indication or source of information about the product’s geographical origin, is not breached; and, thus, consumers are not confused or misled. Con-sequently, this approach will prevent a broad in- terpretation and application of Article 23.3 of the TRIPS Agreement, which allows the coexistence of homonymous GIs for wines. To sum up briefly, the protection of the geographi- cal origin of a product has historically been based on the concept of terroir, i.e., the link between the GI-product and the GI-origin, to which its char- acteristics, reputation and quality should be exclu- sively (or at the most “essentially”) attributable. However, the TRIPS Agreement expands the defi- nition of GIs, thereby weakening their protection and allowing their delocalization. This favors the dilution of the information content of GI promo- tion or geographical