e-ISSN: 2523-2851 Consequently, Chile often chooses to promote its AO by incorporating the name of the country (i.e., Pisco Chile). Th e same strategy has been adopted in other disputes, such as in the Rioja case between Argentina and Spain. Th is raises a pertinent ques- tion: in such scenarios, does the distinctiveness reside primarily in the GI term, or does it shift to the name of the country? In other words, does the coexistence of homonymous GIs dilutes their distinctive force as distinctive signs to inform con- sumers of the product’s geographical origin? For Peru, Pisco is Peruvian and does not require any additional adjective for promotion. Th e GI is not ‘Pisco Peru’; it is just ‘Pisco’ (SELA, 2021). Despite this, in 2019, after rejecting the Chilean “truce” proposal, the Commission for the Promo- tion of Peru for Exports and Tourism (PROMPE- RU) launched a promotional campaign as a sec- toral brand called Pisco Spirt of Peru to promote the Peruvian AO. Similarly, in the case of Rioja Argentina vs. Rioja (Spain), the Spanish government stated that using the country name Argentina was not enough to prevent market confusion or to dilute the protec- tion of the Spanish GI. Interestingly, even though it is legally feasible, neither Chile9 nor Peru10 have requested the nullity of the GI registered in the other’s country, in contrast to Spain’s action against the recognition of Rioja Argentina as a GI. In fact, the Spanish Board of the Qualifi ed Denomination of Origin Rioja unsuccessfully challenged, before the administrative and judiciary instances, the Resolution C-32/2002 from 2002, under which the National Winemaking Institute in Argentina recognized the term “La Rioja Argentina” as a GI. In response to the unfavorable outcome in the Rioja case, Pedro Saenz, who was the president of the autonomous community of La Rioja, Spain, in 2012, remarked that the decision “attacks, as a whole, competitiveness with Europe, from the point of view of the quality models of European appellations of origin, which the European Union protects and shelters” (La Nación, 2012, par. 6, free translation). In the case of Rioja, the position of Spain is similar to that of Peru. Spain contended that Argentinean winemakers are usurping the reputation of their GI Rioja and causing confusion among consum-ers. Th ey further argued that consumers might mistakenly associate the quality and reputation of Argentinean wines with that of Spain wines. On the other hand, the position of Argentina aligns closely with Chile’s perspective. Th ey emphasized that their wine labels clearly mention the coun- try name, as in ‘Rioja Argentina’, and incorporate other distinguishing elements to set them apart, thereby eliminating any intention to mislead con- sumers. 1.4. The consumer’s perspective on the coexistence of GI Pisco Th e coexistence of GI Pisco has not been peaceful and has caused confusion in the market. To sub- stantiate this, I looked into social comments from writers, historians, citizens, and producers from both Peru and Chile. Evidence of this confusion and cultural