the connection between the geographical origin of the product and its characteristics, quality, or reputation must be protected and assessed in relation to a specific product. Besides, I must mention that the so-called distinc- tive character of the GI is somewhat of a ‘legal fiction’, created to protect the fundamental link previously described, as it conveys relevant infor- mation to consumers about the product’s charac- teristics, reputation, and quality. Consequently, the GI’s role in informing consumers gives it its distinctive character, as the GI might be able to dif- ferentiate and distinguish a product in the market from similar offerings. This is different from the case of trademarks since, under its legal system, the designation of the product’s origin could be con- sidered descriptive. From a legal perspective, according to the Paris Convention (WIPO, 1883)17, the “indications of source” and AOs fall under the scope of industrial property protection (Article 1.2). However, there is no definition of “indication of source” or AO. The Lisbon Agreement (WIPO, 1958)18, on the other hand, aiming to uphold the fundamental basis of the GIs, established the protection of AOs and defined them as the geographical denomina- tion of a country, region, or locality used to desig- nate a product originating therein, and the quality or characteristics of which are due exclusively or es- sentially to the geographical environment, includ- ing natural and human factors (Article 2.1). In this context, the TRIPS Agreement19 defined GIs as indications that identify goods as originat- ing in the territory of a Member, or a region or locality in that territory, where a given quality, reputation or other characteristic of the goods is essentially attributable to their geographical origin, without considering or mentioning the human factor (Article 22.1). The TRIPS Agreement establishes a broader scope of protection compared to the Lisbon Agreement20 by removing the word essentially, omitting the ref- erence to the human factor, and adding the concept of reputation to the definition of GIs. In fact, as pointed out by Calboli (2014, p. 59), the GI’s defi- nition essentially misuses, or at least misinterprets, the notion of the terms geographical and origin, and expands the scope of GI protection beyond the meaning of these terms. This discrepancy from a literal interpretation con- tributes to granting exclusive rights to GIs beyond the original rationale for protection and demon- strates that the geographical link has been progres- sively broadened. This has been done to accom- modate corporate and national interests, primarily coming from businesses from the EU and other countries with GI-intensive industries (mainly from the Old World), since the delocalization of 17 Peru and Chile are members. 18 Peru is a member country, Chile is not. 19 Internationally, the Paris Convention, the Madrid Agreement and the Lisbon Agreement are the main sources for international protection of GIs before the TRIPS Agreement. All of these sources set the standards for the protection of GIs. 20 However, the scope of the latest agreement is currently expanded by the Geneva Act