the principles of trademarks since they are similar to GIs to the extent that both fulfi l a dis- tinctive function. GIs identify the origin or source of goods and help diff erentiate individual products among similar goods by communicating the “spe- cifi c quality” attributed to the geographical origin (Kireeva and O’Connor, 2009). Th e similarity be- tween GIs and trademarks suggests that GIs share some of the key economic functions of trademarks, such as reducing consumers’ search costs for the desired product by avoiding confusion between goods that might appear identical before purchase (Landes and Posner 2003). 2.1. The weakening of the GI’s distinctive function and the confusion in the market caused by the coexistence of homonymous GIs 2.1.1. The dilution or erosion of the distinctiveness of the GIs Historically, GIs are signs used to identify the geo- graphical origin of a product, indicating where it is grown or produced, and from which its char- acteristics, quality or reputation are attributable. In international treaties, GIs have included the so- called AO and GI. Meanwhile, in national or re- gional legislations, the term has included concepts The Balance of Interests in the Coexistence of Homonymous Geographical Indications: Suggestions for Practical International ImplementationRevista de Actualidad Mercantil N°9210such as “AO”, “Protected AO”, and “Protected GI”, making differences depending on each juris- diction. Despite these different concepts, the core or rationale of GIs has historically been the link between the product’s geographical origin and its characteristics, quality, or reputation. This link or connection has been the fundamental, or sine qua non, basis upon which various jurisdictions have construed GI protection (Calboli, 2006). Based on the established link between a product and its geographical origin, GIs, in economic terms, have the distinctive function or role of in- forming consumers about the origin of the goods they represent and their commercial quality, which is intrinsically tied to their place of origin. Addi- tionally, GIs play a role in potentially promoting the goods of a given area, consequently fostering development in that region and generating in- come and tangible benefits for rural or marginal- ized groups (Gangjee, 2012). The above is without prejudice to the ability of GIs to project the culture of a country or region as a national symbol, as al- ready illustrated in the case of Pisco. Likewise, from the link between the GI-product and the GI-origin, it is fair to deduce that the dis- tinctiveness character or function of a GI shall be assessed in light of the trademark’s specificity prin- ciple. This principle gives protection to a trade- mark against an identical or similar sign that seeks to distinguish identical or similar products. There- fore, the distinctiveness of GIs or the connection between the geographical origin of the product and its characteristics, quality, or reputation must be protected and assessed in relation to a specific product. Besides, I must mention that the so-called distinc- tive character of the GI is somewhat of a ‘legal fiction’, created to protect the fundamental