and quality are attributa- ble. Th is also undermines the GIs’ ability to project the culture of a country as a national symbol or a fl agship product. b. Ambiguous international protection, in the sense that even when the homonymous GIs are recognized in other foreign States, mainly under bilateral or plurilateral agreements that allow their coexistence, this has been done without defi ning the practical conditions un- der which the homonymous indications will be diff erentiated from each other. c. Erosion of the economic value of GIs as a marketing tool, which may discourage pro- ducers from investing in the GI and States from developing a successful GI. 2. Coexistence of homonymous GIs: A theo- retical analysis under TRIPS Agreement In this section, I conceptually analyze the issues of the coexistence of homonymous GIs for identi- cal products, identifi ed and extrapolated from the Pisco case. I aim to propose a systematic interpre- tation of the provisions of the TRIPS Agreement to address these problems in the absence of explicit international standards regulating the coexistence of homonymous GIs. Th e above is to establish under what conditions the coexistence should be allowed in order to maintain a balance between the interests of producers, consumers and States (public interest). Preliminarily, it is important to establish the defi - nition of the coexistence of homonymous GI, es- pecially in the absence of a legal defi nition of hom- onymy in the TRIPS Agreement. According to the Oxford English Dictionary (n.d.) and the Real Academia Española (RAE, n.d.), a homonymous term is a word that is spelled and pronounced like another word, but which conveys or identi- fi es a diff erent person or object. Interestingly, from a strictly linguistic standpoint, the Oxford Eng- lish Dictionary (n.d.) also defi nes homonymous as equivocal or ambiguous. Despite these defi nitions, the WIPO (2000) defi ned homonymy as “two or more identical [GIs] used to designate the geo- graphical origin of products stemming from dif- ferent countries” (p. 20); a defi nition that will be upheld in this paper. Th erefore, the condition for the coexistence of homonymous GIs is that the GI-term must be identical, regardless of the products they distin- guish. From this premise, three scenarios arise under which this situation might appear, and each one is considered in the analysis. Th e fi rst scenario is when the homonymous GIs distinguish identi- cal products (i.e., the same type of products), as in the Pisco case. Th e second one is when they distin- guish similar products (i.e., commercially related products). Th e third one is when they distinguish diff erent products. Finally, in this section, I introduce, by analogy, some of the principles of trademarks since they are similar to GIs to the extent that both fulfi l a dis- tinctive function. GIs identify the origin or source of goods and help diff erentiate individual products among similar goods by communicating the “spe- cifi c quality” attributed to the geographical origin