issue. Alternatively, given the political and technical challenges of amending the TRIPS Agreement’s articles, a systematic interpretation of its provisions could off er a viable solution, as previously suggested. A third option would involve recognizing homonymous GIs through unambigu- ous clauses in bilateral and plurilateral agreements, thereby avoiding to give them -what I will call in this paper- an “empty protection”, as will be ex- plained in this section. Otherwise, accepting the coexistence of homony- mous GIs as a rule, especially when it dilutes the fundamental basis of GIs and leads to consumer confusion and misleading, would essentially mean broadening the protection granted to GIs and not maintaining the proper scope of protection, which is crucial for trade. In this context, there are three scenarios regarding the coexistence of homonymous GIs in interna- tional trade. Th e fi rst scenario involves states that allow coexistence. Th e second one pertains to states that grant exclusive rights to one country, thereby rejecting coexistence with another homonymous GI. Th e third scenario relates to States that do not recognize any homonymous GI. In the fi rst scenario, the absence of international harmonized provisions under the TRIPS Agree- ment regulating the coexistence of homonymous GIs has unjustifi ably broadened the GIs’ scope of protection by allowing the coexistence of identi- cal GIs, even at the expense of the likelihood of confusion in the market, the misleading of the consumers, and the dilution or erosion of the GI distinctiveness. As mentioned above, the broad international protection of homonymous GIs has been real- ized through bilateral agreements, under which the States have, in some cases, just recognized the homonymous GIs, stating that one recognition does not aff ect or prejudice the recognition of the other. However, States have not implemented any practical condition or establish any compromise The Balance of Interests in the Coexistence of Homonymous Geographical Indications: Suggestions for Practical International ImplementationRevista de Actualidad Mercantil N°9218for the differentiation of identical GIs other than recognizing the GI along with the country name, as in the case of the GI Pisco. For instance, in the bilateral trade agreements signed between Peru and States like China, Ko- rea, Japan, and the United States, the GI Pisco is recognized as “Pisco Peru.” On the other hand, in plurilateral trade agreements between Chile and countries such as the United States and Japan, as well as the so-called P4 block (comprising Singa- pore, New Zealand, Brunei, and Darussalam), the GI Pisco is recognized as either “Pisco Chileno” or “Pisco-Chile.” However, as previously mentioned, this measure does not effectively prevent the dilu- tion or erosion of the link between the GI product and its characteristics, quality, and reputation at- tributable to its origin. In my opinion, the clauses recognizing the coex- istence of homonymous GIs have bestowed upon them what I term “empty protection.” This refers to a recognition that comes at the expense of po- tential market confusion, the risk of misleading consumers, and the dilution or erosion of the