and quality derive. Th is fi rst proposal can be implemented by States when considering whether to allow the coexistence of homonymous GIs in a bilateral or plurilat- eral trade agreement; and by the WIPO Standing Committee on the Law of T rademarks, Industrial Designs, and GIs by adopting the proposed inter- pretation as its own and suggesting it to States in the fi nal document of its session prepared by the International Bureau. Finally, if the EU’s ideal of creating a multilateral system for the notifi cation and registration of GIs at the WTO level, as dis- The Balance of Interests in the Coexistence of Homonymous Geographical Indications: Suggestions for Practical International ImplementationRevista de Actualidad Mercantil N°9220cussed in the Doha Round of WTO Members’ negotiations, comes to fruition, the proposed in- terpretation could also be adopted by the WTO Bureau responsible for GI registration. This would be useful when analyzing and determining whether two identical GIs should be registered in the sys- tem and, if not, which GI should prevail under the proposed priority principle. In this way, the WTO could set a precedent for the coexistence of homon- ymous GIs based on the proposed interpretation. The second proposal follows the first, as this in- terpretation might lead to a redrafting of Articles 22 and 23 of the TRIPS Agreement. I propose in- corporating a general provision on the coexistence of homonymous GIs into Article 22 of the TRIPS Agreement while eliminating the provision in Ar- ticle 23(3), as follows: Homonymous GIs shall only be allowed by States as an exception, and their protection shall be accorded to each indication, guaran- teeing that the link between the products and their geographical origin will not be diluted, the consumers are not misled, and it does not generate likelihood of confusion in the mar- ket. A likelihood of confusion shall be pre- sumed in the case of homonymous signs for identical goods. In all cases of coexistence of homonymous GIs, each Member claiming their individual recog- nition shall determine the practical conditions under which the homonymous indications in question will be differentiated from each other, taking into account the need to ensure the link between the products and their geographical origin, to ensure equitable treatment of the producers concerned, and to prevent the con- sumers from being misled or confused. Considering the technical and political difficul- ties inherent in redrafting the TRIPS Agreement, I would encourage States to adopt the suggested systematic interpretation when deciding whether a homonymous GI should be recognized. If recogni- tion is not granted, States should apply the pro- posed priority principle, granting prior rights over the GI to whoever may correspond. In instances where coexistence does not pose a problem, States can allow it through bilateral or multilateral agree- ments. As a third proposal, I suggest the following model clause that includes the rationale of the pro- posed systematic interpretation: (State A) recognizes the geographical indication(s) (X) for exclusive use on products originating in (State B).