behalf of Peru. Th is refusal stemmed from the earlier recognition of the Chilean GI Pisco under the T rade Agreement establishing an association between the European Community and its Member States, on the one part, and the Republic of Chile, on the other part, signed on November 18, 2022. However, in 2013, Pisco was recognized as a Pe- ruvian GI in all the EU Member States, under the T rade Agreement between the EU and Peru (2012). Th is was despite the fact that Pisco from Chile had already been recognized before, under the Associa- tion Agreement signed between Chile and the EU (2003). Likewise, under Commission Regulation 1065/2013 of 2013, the EU clarifi es that the pro- tection of the GI Pisco for products originating in Peru does not hinder the use of such denomination for products originating in Chile, and vice versa (Commission Regulation 1065/2013 of 2013). As of 2013, the Peruvian and Chilean Pisco has been allowed to coexist in all the EU Members States. Th us, the European members of the Lis- bon Agreement, who refused the protection for the Peruvian GI Pisco, should withdraw the refusal to ensure consistency between the bilateral agree- ments and the Lisbon System. On October 23, 2006, Mexico also declined the protection of the AO Pisco requested under the Lisbon System on behalf of Peru. Th e refusal was based on the contention that it constituted an ob- stacle to the use of products from Chile labelled with the GI Pisco, which had been previously recognized under the 1998 Free T rade Agreement (FTA) between Mexico and Chile. In this regard, Mexico argued that, based on an integral interpre- tation of the Lisbon Agreement, the coexistence of homonymous appellations of origin is not allowed (General Directorate of the Mexican Institute of Industrial Property, 2006). Mexico’s position appears to be inconsistent with the provisions in the aforementioned FTA with Chile. Th is agreement specifi ed that in Mexico, the importation, manufacture or sale of products under the Chilean AOs (including Pisco) would not be allowed unless they have been produced and certifi ed in Chile, under the Chilean legislation ap- plicable to such products but without prejudice to the rights that Mexico may recognize, in addition to Chile, exclusively for Peru, with regard to Pisco (FTA between Mexico and Chile, 1998). As may be appreciated, under the FTA, Mexico left the door open to protect the Peruvian AO, Pisco, but refused the protection applied internationally by Peru un- der the Lisbon Agreement. Currently, the Peruvian AO, Pisco, is protected in Mexico under the Peru- Mexico T rade Integration Agreement (2012). Costa Rica also recognized both the protection for the Peruvian AO, Pisco, under the Lisbon Agree- ment, and the Chilean AO, Pisco, under the pro- visions of the FTA between Central America (in- cluding Costa Rica) and Chile, in force since 2002. In fact, Costa Rica withdrew in 2007 the partial recognition granted in 2006 (Direction of Indus- trial Property