not pose a problem, States can allow it through bilateral or multilateral agree- ments. As a third proposal, I suggest the following model clause that includes the rationale of the pro- posed systematic interpretation: (State A) recognizes the geographical indication(s) (X) for exclusive use on products originating in (State B). Consequently, in (State A), the im- port, manufacture, or sale of products under the geographical indication(s) is not permitted unless they have been produced and certified in (State B) following the legislation of (State B) applicable to such products. The recognition provided for in this clause shall be without prejudice to the rights that (State A) may recognize in other trade agreements for the homonymous geographical indication (X) for its exclusive use on products originating in (State C), given that the products of (State B) and (State C) are not identical or similar. Therefore, there is no likelihood of confusion in trade, and the interests of consumers, producers, and States are balanced. (State B) undertakes under this agreement to implement the following practical conditions in (State C) in order to strengthen the distinctiveness of coexisting homonymous GIs: a) to use a distinc- tive distinguishing element together with the GI, such as a certification, collective, or country mark; b) to use the name of the country together with the GI; and c) to use other identifiers of the country in the promotion of the GI. Country C will also undertake to take the above measures within the framework of the corresponding trade agreement. Conclusions From the inductive analysis of the Pisco case, this paper illustrates that the coexistence of homony- mous GIs for identical or similar products presents the following three problems. Firstly, the consumer confusion arising from the dilution or erosion of the GI’s distinctiveness. This not only undermines the GI’s ability to protect a country’s culture as a national symbol but also hinders its contribution to the development of the GI-territory. Secondly, an ambiguous international protection, primar- ily through bilateral and plurilateral agreements. While these recognize and permit the coexistence of homonymous GIs, they do not specify the prac- tical conditions required for their differentiation. And, thirdly, the erosion of the GIs’ economic value as a marketing tool. This can discourage pro- ducers from investing in the GI and prevent States from developing a successful GI. All these issues were corroborated in the theoretical analysis. Indeed, from a theoretical analysis of the above issues, by revisiting the fundamental basis of GIs (i.e., the concept of terroir) and by analogously ap- plying the principle of specificity and priority, as well as mechanisms and presumptions from trade- mark system to assess the likelihood of confusion, I determined that coexistence should only be al- Andrea Jimenez Garay 221Revista de Actualidad Mercantil N° 9 / e-ISSN: 2523-2851 lowed as an exception in cases where: a) the funda- mental basis of the GIs is not breached, meaning their distinctive character is neither diluted nor eroded; b) there’s no risk of confusion; and c) con-