the Paris Convention, the Madrid Agreement and the Lisbon Agreement are the main sources for international protection of GIs before the TRIPS Agreement. All of these sources set the standards for the protection of GIs. 20 However, the scope of the latest agreement is currently expanded by the Geneva Act of the Lisbon Agreement (WIPO, 2015) concerning AOs and GIs to protect these last, as conceptualized in the TRIPS Agreement. Andrea Jimenez Garay 211Revista de Actualidad Mercantil N° 9 / e-ISSN: 2523-2851 the GI allows to reduce production costs, as well as to meet greater demands, as was mentioned by Calboli (2014). She also called this delocalization of the product’s origin an “ambiguous geographi- cal origin”, and advocated against the misuse, or misinterpretation of the term geographical origin in Article 22.1 of the TRIPS Agreement. Th erefore, the author proposes a redrafting of the mentioned article and encourages national legislators to con- sider a stricter interpretation of GIs at the local level. From a theoretical standpoint, the protection of GIs remains fundamentally linked to the notion of geographical origin. Even more so considering that historically GIs were “originated in France as a form of intellectual property to prevent the usur- pation of French wines’ reputation in consumer markets and to promote quality standards in wine production” (Bassem and Cadogan, 2017, p. 3). Both actions were accomplished by protecting the concept of the terroir, i.e., the link between the GI product and its geographical origin. In fact, the term GI is derived from the law related to AOs, which initially appeared in the French Law of August 1, 1905. Although this Law did not provide a defi nition for AOs until 1966, sub- sequent amendments eventually defi ned AO as a geographical name of a country, region, or local- ity, that serves to designate a product originating therein, the quality and characteristics of which are due exclusively or essentially to the geographical environment, including natural and human fac- tors (Awad and Cadogan, 2017). Th is defi nition is similar to the one in the Lisbon Agreement. However, a closer look at the controversies sur- rounding the GI debate reveals a partially diff erent application of the concept of “geographical origin” in relation to GI protection. Indeed, the protection of GIs appears to be increasingly shifting towards a trend aimed at exploiting their commercial value (i.e., reputation), at the expense of geographical accuracy; that is, regardless of whether GIs still provide accurate information about the geographi- cal origin of the products (Calboli, 2014), as illus- trated by the allowance of coexistence of homony- mous GIs for identical or similar products. Th is growing trend is evident in the case of Pisco, which is protected in Chile and Peru as an AO, which, by defi nition, has a closer basis on the con- cept of terroir than GIs. However, internationally it is mostly recognized and protected as a GI (on its broader concept), particularly in those juris- dictions that do not distinguish between