Pisco will be in- ductively analyzed to identify and extrapolate the issues, if any, raised by the coexistence of homony- mous GIs. To this end, the analysis will consider: a) a brief historical account of the origin of Pisco, b) the legal protection given to Pisco in both coun- tries, c) the cultural and nationalistic approach of Chile and Peru to the coexistence of the GI Pisco, d) the consumer’s perspective on this coexistence, e) the international protection claimed by these countries over the GI Pisco, and f) the economic signifi cance of the coexistence of the GI Pisco. 1.1. Brief historical account of the origin of Pisco Pisco is the name of a province in the Ica region on the coast of Peru. It has appeared on maps since 1574 (Hinojosa, 2019) but it has existed since the time of the pre-Hispanic cultures of Paracas and Nazca. Th e Incas were the ones who used the Que- chua word “Pisko” (which means “bird”) to name the valley, located approximately 200 km south of Lima, where the Paracas culture developed (Nud- man, 2007). With the establishment of the Vice- royalty of Peru, the port of Pisco was used to ex- port the famous distillate made in the area with the grapes brought by the Spanish. Over time, this distillate came to be known as “Pisco”. Pisco is also the name of a Chilean village in the community of Paihuano, within the province of The Balance of Interests in the Coexistence of Homonymous Geographical Indications: Suggestions for Practical International ImplementationRevista de Actualidad Mercantil N°9200Elquique, Coquimbo region. “The original name of this village was La Greda. It was later changed to La Unión” (Wikiwand, n.d., par. 2) in 1873, and renamed Pisco Elqui in 1936. In the interim, Chile issued the Decree with force of Law No. 18117 in 1931, which reserved the name Pisco for spirits de- rived from the distillation of “grape broths” within the departments of Copiapó, Huasco, La Serena, Elqui, and others. As a result of this Decree, some scholars consider Pisco as the first legally recog- nized GI in the Americas (Hinojosa, 2019). The name change to Pisco Elqui was made after the revoke of the prohibition to sell alcohol in the United States of America in 1933. Before this prohibition, Pisco exports from Peru were an im- portant business, dating back to the time of the California gold rush in 1849 (Gutiérrez, 2019). Therefore, this name change has been criticized as being driven purely by commercial purposes, seek- ing to capitalize on the prestige of Peruvian Pisco in the United States of America, ensuring the ex- ports of Chilean distillate under the name of Pisco (Gutiérrez, 2019). Historically, both the Peruvian and Chilean distil- lates are products derived from the distillation of wines made exclusively from the fermentation of ripe grapes, originally brought to the Americas by the Spanish Crown3. Their production dates back to the 16th century, coinciding with the Spanish colonization of the territory