what grounds these bilateral agreements impeded the recognition under the Lisbon Agreement. There is ambiguity regarding whether this blockage corresponds to the interpretation that the Lisbon Agreement does not allow the coexistence of homonymous GIs. More- over, while the EU has recognized the coexistence, its members have yet to withdraw -in some way possible- their refusals to the Peruvian application under the Lisbon Agreement before WIPO. In addition, an ambiguous interpretation of the provisions on the coexistence of homonymous GIs is also inferred since Mexico withdrew its re- fusal and changed its interpretation of the Lisbon Agreement. This ambiguity opens new interpreta- tions for countries to suit their commercial inter- ests, as Mexico did after signing the T rade Integra- tion Agreement with Peru. This is also allowed since the Lisbon Agreement does not contain any explicit provisions on the coexistence of homony- mous GIs, and the bilateral agreements are in line with the TRIPS Agreement, which also does not prohibit or regulate the coexistence of homony- mous GIs in general, with the exception on wines (Article 23.3). The previous bilateral agreements blocking the recognition of a GI through the Lisbon Agree- ment show that there is a claim for priority in the recognition of a GI, similar to the case for trade- marks. Regarding the latter, Article 6septies of the Paris Convention stipulates that when conflicting claims about rights to a specific trademark arise, the earlier right in time typically takes precedence. This priority might be based on first use, first reg- istration, or the fact that the trademark was well- known prior to the registration or use of a similar or identical mark for similar or identical goods; as long as these conditions are fulfilled in good faith (WIPO, 2000). Article 16 of the TRIPS Agree- ment is also based on this provision. Nevertheless, the TRIPS Agreement lacks any provision that refers to conflicting claims over the right to a specific GI. In this regard, Article 24 of the TRIPS Agreement, often referred to as the ‘grandfather clause’, contains a number of ex- ceptions to the obligations under Articles 22 and 23, which pertain to the protection of GIs. Theses exceptions can be categorized into three classes: a) continuous and similar use of GIs for wine and spirits for at least 10 years before April 15, 1994, or in good faith before that date; b) pre-existing or prior trademarks rights established in good faith; and c) generic designations. In practical terms, two main observations can be made. Firstly, bilateral or plurilateral trade agree- ments have become the main source for recogniz- ing a GI. Secondly, under the Lisbon Agreement, which provides a unique system for the interna- tional registration of GIs, protection for a hom- onymous GI could be refused if its protection had been previously recognized for another country by a trade agreement, as evidenced by Peru’s applica- tion. Yet, there is no international harmonization in the provisions set by the TRIPS Agreement to address this issue.