Registration (Lisbon Agreement); and, more recently, of the Geneva Act of the Lisbon Agreement on Appellations of Origin and GIs (as adopted on May 20, 2015)11. In this context, on May 19, 2005, Peru submit- ted an application to the International Bureau of WIPO for the registration of the Peruvian AO Pisco. This was in accordance with the provisions of the Lisbon Agreement12, administrated by the 11 The countries bound by the Lisbon Agreement form a Special Union and commit to protecting the appellations of origin of pro- ducts from other member countries on their territories. These appellations must be recognized and protected in their country of origin and registered with the International Bureau of Intellectual Property, which established the WIPO (Article 1). This mecha- nism functions as a bundle of applications for the recognition of a GI centralized at WIPO, which notifies each country member of the Union. They can reject the protection for the proposed GI within a one-year timeframe, as stipulated in Article 5(3) of the Lisbon Agreement. 12 Per the Lisbon Agreement, every member state within the Lisbon Union commits to protecting the appellations of origin of pro- ducts from other Union countries on its territory. These appellations must be both recognized and protected in their country of origin and be registered with the international office. Andrea Jimenez Garay 205Revista de Actualidad Mercantil N° 9 / e-ISSN: 2523-2851 WIPO and whose signatories States form the Lis- bon Union. At the time of Peru’s application, the Lisbon Union comprised 22 signatories: Algeria, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Slovakia, France, Gabon, Georgia, Haiti, Hungary, Israel, Italy, Mexico, Portugal, Czech Republic, Republic of Moldova, Democratic People’s Republic of Ko- rea, Serbia, Togo, and T unisia. As a result of the application, Pisco is registered as a Peruvian AO before WIPO, under Certifi cate No. 865 (WIPO, Lisbon Express, n.d.). However, eight countries have refused its protection: Czech Republic (Industrial Property Offi ce of the Czech Republic, 2006), France (National Institute of Ap- pellations of Origin of France, 2006), Italy (Di- rectorate General for Productive Development and Competitiveness of the Ministry of Productive Activities of Italy, 2006), Hungary (International T rademarks Section of Hungary, 2006), Slovakia (International T rademarks Department of the of the Industrial Property Offi ce of the Slovak Re- public, 2006), Portugal (T rademarks, Designs and Models Department of the National Institute of Industrial Property of Portugal, 2006), Iran (Is- lamic Republic of Iran Industrial Property Offi ce, 2007), and Bulgaria (Patent Offi ce of the Republic of Bulgaria, 2006). In the Czech Republic, France, Italy, Hungary, Slovakia, Portugal and Bulgaria13 (EU Member States), the protection of the AO Pisco was refused in 2006 on behalf of Peru. Th is refusal stemmed from the earlier recognition of the Chilean GI Pisco under the T rade Agreement establishing an association between the European Community and its Member States, on the one part, and the Republic of Chile, on the other part, signed on November 18, 2022.