perspective on the coexistence of GI Pisco Th e coexistence of GI Pisco has not been peaceful and has caused confusion in the market. To sub- stantiate this, I looked into social comments from writers, historians, citizens, and producers from both Peru and Chile. Evidence of this confusion and cultural sensitivity around the coexistence of Pisco is abundant in various media outlets, from printed pages to the internet (Mitchell and Terry, 2011). In the case of Peru, ample evidence show that the prevailing social perception is that this coexistence is muddling the market. Th is is not surprising given that the government and Peruvian society, in general, are opposed to the coexistence of the GI Pisco, claiming their exclusive rights over it, as explained in section 1.2. In the case of Chile, the situation is more ambigu- ous. While, as explained in section 1.2, the Chil- ean government is open to the coexistence of both GIs, despite that there is some evidence suggesting that producers, writers, historians and the general society do not consider this coexistence to be legiti- mate, and that it is leading to consumer confusion in the market. In fact, the Chilean Pisco producers (SELA, 2021) have recognized this confusion. As Claudio Escobar, manager of Chilean Pisco Pro- ducers Association, stated: Th is [the confusion about Pisco] happens a lot in the international promotion activities of the category, such as master classes, showrooms, business roundtables [...]. Th is has necessarily implied evolving the communication message so as not to confuse the consumer, so today we are always talking about “Chilean Pisco” […] 9 According to Articles 101, 102 and 120 of Law 19039 of 2007. 10 According to Articles 206 and 207 of Decision 486 of 2000. The Balance of Interests in the Coexistence of Homonymous Geographical Indications: Suggestions for Practical International ImplementationRevista de Actualidad Mercantil N°9204when promoting our products and highlighting results with the differentiating attributes of our product (SELA, 2021, par. 4, free translation). Likewise, the Chilean writer Isabel Allende men- tioned in El cuaderno de Maya (2011) that the name Pisco had been unceremoniously usurped from Peru. Furthermore, Gabriel González Videla, former president of Chile, and deputy when the name change from La Unión to Pisco Elqui was proposed and approved, confessed in his memories that the name Pisco was owned exclusively by Peru (Westhoff, 2019). Moreover, several authors have documented that this confusion led to anecdotes like the one starring in a well-known Peruvian music festival, where the leader of a popular Mexican band exclaimed dur- ing his performance: “Greetings from the land of Tequila, Mexico, to the land of Pisco Sour, Chile” (Díaz et al., 2004, p. 180, free translation). In this context, it is important to mention that my exploration of social comments regarding the co- existence of GI Pisco revealed a strong cultural and nationalist sentimentalism among Peruvians. A re- sponse from a semi-anonymous reader to an article on a Peruvian website about national gastronomy vividly captures this sentiment: This