their homonymous GIs, when allowing the coexistence of identical GIs for wines, should take into account the need to ensure that consumers are not misled. On the other hand, confusion is an act prevented by the protection of the GIs in Article 22.2.b of the TRIPS Agreement. Under this article, the WTO Members shall provide interested parties with legal means to counter any use that constitutes an act of unfair competition, as defi ned in Article 10bis of the Paris Convention. Th is defi nition includes any act of such a nature as to create confusion by any means with the establishment, goods, or industrial or commercial activities of a competitor. Never- theless, the TRIPS Agreement lacks provisions addressing the likelihood of confusion regarding the coexistence of identical GIs in general. Fur- thermore, this issue is not mentioned in the provi- sion of Article 23.3 that regulates the coexistence of homonymous GIs for wines. From a theoretical standpoint, when dealing with trademarks, to determine that there is likelihood of confusion, both the signs and the goods they identifi ed shall be either identical or similar. In this regard, in Article 16.1 of the TRIPS Agreement, the likelihood of confusion shall be presumed in the case of identical signs for identical products. Notably, this article does not mention if such pre- sumption is absolute (iuris et de iure) or relative (iuris tamtum). However, as a general principle of law, presumptions must be considered relative, meaning that they are subject to proof to the con- trary, unless it is explicitly prohibited by the legal provision.22In the case of homonymous GIs, the signs or GI- terms are, by defi nition, identical. Th us, if we ap- ply the criteria of the trademark system explained in the previous paragraph by analogy, determining whether or not these signs are likely to cause con- fusion hinges on analyzing whether the GIs-prod- ucts are identical or similar. If they are, their co- existence should not be allowed, as it would cause confusion in the market; even more so, in the case of identical GI-terms for identical products, the likelihood of confusion shall be presumed, subject to proof to the contrary. It is important to note that for products to be con- sidered identical, they must be of the same type, even if they have diff erent specifi cations, as in the Pisco case. Similarly, in order for some products to be considered similar, they should have the same nature, distribution channels, and target consum- ers, among other factors. Th is is akin to the criteria used in the case of confusion between trademarks. Furthermore, it is possible for one of the identical GIs to become well-known in the country where coexistence is claimed. In this case, States should consider the principles of the well-known-trade- marks provisions of the TRIPS Agreement (Ar- ticle 16.3) to assess if said coexistence should be allowed. In doing so, the States should analyze if the other GI, which is intended to coexist