Geographical Indications: Suggestions for Practical International ImplementationRevista de Actualidad Mercantil N°9216to its prior recognition for another country under bilateral or plurilateral trade agreements. Based on the above, it is reasonable to conclude that, in the case of conflicting GI claims, the priority right in an international GI registration system is currently based on the first recognition under a bilateral agreement. This holds true un- til the homonymous GI is also recognized by an- other bilateral agreement with the same country, as happened in the Pisco case with Mexico. Initially, Mexico refused Peru’s application under the Lis- bon Agreement. This refusal was due to Mexico’s prior recognition of the Chilean GI Pisco under a bilateral agreement. Mexico argued that the Lis- bon Agreement does not allow the coexistence of homonymous GIs. However, after signing the bi- lateral trade agreement with Peru, Mexico changed its interpretation of the Lisbon Agreement, which does not contain any provision regarding the coex- istence of homonymous GIs. As a result, Mexico withdrew its refusal after recognizing the Peruvian GI Pisco through a bilateral trade agreement. In this regard, given that there is no detailed argu- mentation in Mexico’s decision, I infer that its initial refusal was based on the Lisbon Agreement provisions, particularly considering the narrowed scope of the concept of an AO and the fundamen- tal basis of GIs. This situation, where bilateral agreements block the international registration of a GI under the Lis- bon Agreement, prompts the following question for future research, as highlighted in the analysis of the Pisco case: Which country is legitimized to claim prior rights over a GI? In other words, in cases where there are conflicting claims over the right to a given GI, can States apply the priority principle of trademarks to resolve the conflict? These questions have been particularly raised in cases where the coexistence of homonymous GIs should not be allowed, such as when there are identical GIs for identical or similar products. In such situations, the issues arising make it prefer- able for only one country to have the legitimate claim to use it and gets its recognition. Conversely, this situation does not arise in the case of identical GIs for different products, since in this scenario the coexistence of homonymous GIs could be al- lowed, as previously explained, and only provided that there ir no well-known GI affected. In the trademark system, under the so-called prin- ciple of priority, priority may be based on first use, first registration or the fact that a trademark was well known prior to the registration or use of a similar or identical trademark for similar or identical goods, provided that the prior right was acquired in good faith. This principle is used to resolve conflicting claims to an identical mark by different owners. Given that protection for a specific GI in a foreign country starts with its recognition, and consider- ing that this recognition can be granted under bi- lateral or plurilateral trade agreements, multilateral systems like the