over-invest to strengthen and, where fea- sible, maintain the distinctiveness of the GIs, en- suring their market value remains intact. In fact, diluting a GI’s distinctiveness eff ectively reduces the value derived from each dollar GI producers spend. Th is dilution might subsequently decrease their motivation to promote or invest further in GIs (Menapace & Moschini, 2014, p. 1031). Th e strength of GI protection aff ects how informative the GI message can be. Despite this, States have often provided homonymous GIs with what I de- scribed as “empty protection.” Secondly, the coexistence of homonymous GIs might impede States from eff ectively developing their GIs and leveraging them as conduits for na- tional culture. As promoters of GIs, States would face the additional costs of diff erentiation and the repercussions of GI delocalization, consequences stemming from homonymous GIs as previously outlined. In essence, it may hinder the States from developing the value of their GIs as a tool for ad- vertising, development, and national and cultural identifi cation. As a result, to secure a solid footing for their GIs in the global market, States might be compelled to over-invest. In conclusion, the coexistence of homonymous GIs, as currently applied by States, makes their market or industry less attractive to producers or investors and hampers the success of the GI inter- nationally. Th is situation, therefore, reduces the economic importance of GIs and makes it more diffi cult for a region or country to benefi t from them. 3. Proposals: How to balance the coe- xistence of a GI? To address the coexistence of homonymous GIs in general, in the absence of provisions regulating them and given the insuffi ciency of the extent ap- plication of Article 23.3, this paper suggests the following three proposals: Th e fi rst proposal is a systematic interpretation of the provisions of the TRIPS Agreement, includ- ing those on trademarks that may correspond. As discussed, in-depth in the second section of this paper, this interpretation seeks to answer how the coexistence of homonymous GIs should be approached. It also addresses whether and under what conditions such coexistence should be al- lowed to maintain the balance among the interests of producers, consumers, and the State (public in- terest).Th e analysis presented in the second section of this paper leads me to conclude that the coexis- tence of homonymous GIs should be allowed only as an exception in cases where: a) the fundamental basis of the GIs is not breached, meaning that their distinctive character is neither diluted nor eroded; b) there is no likelihood of confusion; and c) con- sumers are not misled regarding the geographical origin of the product, from which the product’s characteristics, reputation, and quality derive. Th is fi rst proposal can be implemented by States when considering whether to allow the coexistence of homonymous GIs in a bilateral or plurilat- eral trade agreement; and by the WIPO Standing Committee on the Law of T rademarks, Industrial Designs, and GIs by adopting the