registration of GIs, protection for a hom- onymous GI could be refused if its protection had been previously recognized for another country by a trade agreement, as evidenced by Peru’s applica- tion. Yet, there is no international harmonization in the provisions set by the TRIPS Agreement to address this issue. In fact, there is no provision stip- ulating that the priority right should be given to the state that has previously claimed the recogni- Andrea Jimenez Garay 207Revista de Actualidad Mercantil N° 9 / e-ISSN: 2523-2851 tion of the GI under a bilateral or plurilateral trade agreement as a means of “registration”. Th en, which country is legitimate to claim prior rights over a GI? Could priority be based on fi rst use, fi rst registration, or the fact that the GI was well-known prior to the recognition or use of a similar or identical GI for similar or identical goods as long as these conditions are fulfi lled in good faith? Th ese questions are raised by the fact that the bilateral or plurilateral agreements have blocked the international registration of a GI un- der the Lisbon Agreement on the understanding that the prior right is based on the fi rst registration under a bilateral or plurilateral trade agreement. Yet again, there is ambiguity. Th e same States have resolved the blocking situation by allowing coexis- tence through the execution of bilateral or plurilat- eral trade agreements with the other country that is also subject to coexistence. In other words, there is no explicit provision regulating the prior right claim over a GI or the coexistence of identical GIs in general. Besides the international registration mentioned earlier, Peru has entered into various bilateral and plurilateral trade agreements currently in force14. Specifi cally, Peru has signed bilateral free trade agreements with Mexico (2011), China (2009), Korea (2011), Japan (2011), Panama (2011), the EU (2012), Costa Rica (2011), and Honduras (2015). Th ese agreements off er mutual recogni- tion of the protection for each party’s GIs, includ- ing Pisco, on behalf of Peru, which in some cases is written as Pisco Peru (China, Korea, and Japan). In this regard, Peru has already signed a bilateral free trade agreement with Guatemala (2011), in which the protection of the AO Pisco is recognized. How- ever, as of the writing of this paper, the agreement with Guatemala is not yet in force. On the other hand, Chile, in addition to other trade agreements currently in force15, has signed bilateral and plurilateral trade agreements with Central America (2002), South Korea (2003), the United States (2003), Japan (2007), Mexico (1998), Singapore, New Zealand and Brunei Darussalam (Economic Partnership Agreement, 2005), Uruguay (2016), the EU (2002) and Tür- kiye (2009). Th ese agreements off er mutual rec- ognition of the protection for each country’s GIs, including Pisco, on behalf of Chile, which in some cases is written as Pisco Chile (Singapore, New Zealand, Brunei, Darussalam) or Pisco Chileno (Japan and the United States). However, in the plurilateral