context, it is important to mention that my exploration of social comments regarding the co- existence of GI Pisco revealed a strong cultural and nationalist sentimentalism among Peruvians. A re- sponse from a semi-anonymous reader to an article on a Peruvian website about national gastronomy vividly captures this sentiment: This is not a case of crying “bad, bad Chile”, it is a case of defending a national symbol, a part of our cultural identity. Pisco is a drink related to our history, to our geography, to our natio- nal historical events. It is as if French would not defend the origin of Champagne, or the Scots of whisky. That is more important than how many bottles we or they sell. (Bernardo, 2008, as cited in Mitchell and Terry, 2011, p. 518) While I did not observe the same intense senti- ment in Chile, it’s important to note that various news outlets, social media platforms, and topical websites in Chile feature open forums dedicated to discussing current affairs (Mitchell and Terry, 2011), in which Pisco remains particularly divisive and the discussion of its ownership is surrounded by an intense nationalistic sentiment. From this, one might infer that while the GI Pisco has indeed garnered a cultural and nationalistic significance in Chilean society, their collective perspective on the coexistence of the GI Pisco seems to be more influ- enced by commercial interests. Consequently, as noted by Mitchell and Terry (2011), “even if the conflict over claims to appel- lation ownership may find some sort of resolution in a legal sense, in cultural terms such an outcome represents a festering sore spot of a sociopolitical nature” (p. 531). Yet, despite the evidence and potential confusion arising from the coexistence of the GI Pisco, the Chilean government appears willing to embrace this coexistence for commercial reasons, potentially diluting the GI’s distinctive force. This will be further discussed in the second section. 1.5. International recognition of the GI Pisco While the protection of the GI Pisco in both Chile and Peru has resulted in goods from one country being unable to be exported to the other under the label ‘Pisco’, the implications extend beyond their borders. This “Pisco War of the Pacific” has also ig- nited on an international stage, with both nations seeking protection in foreign countries. There are two ways to obtain international pro- tection for a GI: a) by entering into international bilateral or plurilateral agreements, and b) by sign- ing or adhering to multilateral treaties. Peru and Chile are both parties of the Paris Convention and the TRIPS Agreement. However, only Peru is a contracting party of the Lisbon Agreement for the Protection of Appellations of Origin and their In- ternational Registration (Lisbon Agreement); and, more recently, of the Geneva Act of the Lisbon Agreement on Appellations of Origin and GIs (as adopted on May 20, 2015)11. In this context, on May 19, 2005, Peru submit- ted an application to the International Bureau of WIPO for the registration of the Peruvian