2019). Historically, both the Peruvian and Chilean distil- lates are products derived from the distillation of wines made exclusively from the fermentation of ripe grapes, originally brought to the Americas by the Spanish Crown3. Their production dates back to the 16th century, coinciding with the Spanish colonization of the territory known then as the Viceroyalty of Peru, an area that includes present- day Peru and Chile (Mitchell and Terry, 2011). As can be seen, the distillate from Peru was named Pisco after the geographical area in Peru where it is produced. However, the distillate from Chile was also called Pisco mainly for commercial rea- sons. Subsequently, Chile renamed an area to Pisco Elqui where their distillate is produced. This move has been described as “a mala fide commercial ma- neuver mounted in a few weeks to attempt to cir- cumvent the United States of America regulations on the proper use of geographical names to desig- nate spirits” (Gutiérrez, 2019). The intent was to legitimize the naming of their product as Pisco and facilitate its export to the United States of America. 1.2. Legal protection of Pisco in Peru and Chile Despite the historical conflict, both Peru and Chile protect Pisco as a GI, specifically as an Appellation of Origin (AO). In Peru, GIs are regulated under a sui generis protection regime (World Intellectual Property Organization [WIPO], n.d.), established by the Andean Community Decision 486 of 2000 (hereinafter referred to as the “Decision”). The De- cision stipulates two distinct legal figures: the AO and the indication of origin. According to Article 201 of the Decision, an AO shall be understood to be a: GI consisting of the name of a particular cou- ntry, region, or locality, or of a name which, without being that of a particular country, re- gion, or locality, refers to a specific geographical area, which name is used to identify a product originating therein, the qualities, reputation, or characteristics of which are exclusively or essen- tially attributable to the geographical environ- ment in which it is produced, including both natural and human factors. On the other hand, according to Article 221 of the Decision, an indication of origin shall be under- stood to be “a name, expression, image or sign that indicates or evokes a particular country, region, lo- cality or place”. In Chile, GIs are also regulated under a sui generis protection regime outlined in their Intellectual Property Law 19.039 of 2006. Article 92 of this Law distinguishes between two different legal fig- ures: the GIs (similar to what is referred to as “indi- cations of origin” in Peru), and the AO. According to this article, a GI is understood to be a “desig- nation that identifies a product as originating in a country, region or locality within the national territory when its quality, reputation or other characteristic is fundamentally attributable to its geographical origin”. Conversely, an AO is under- stood to be a “reference that identifies a product as originating in the country, region or